
Start a Wiki
Sign In
Fan Central
Current
Skip to content
Martial Arts Wiki
161
pages

    Explore
    Wiki Content
    Community

in: Article stubs, Japanese Martial Arts, Needs References	
Judo	
Sign in to edit
Judo
Have an image of this martial art?
Then please upload it!
Also called 	Kano Jujutsu
Country of origin 	Japan
Parent arts 	Jujutsu
Descendant arts 	Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, Sambo
Focus 	Throwing


Judo (柔道, jūdō), meaning "gentle way", is a modern Japanese martial art and combat sport, that originated in Japan in the late nineteenth century. Its most prominent feature is its competitive element, where the object is to either throw one's opponent to the ground, pin the opponent to the ground, or force an opponent to submit by a joint lock or choke. Strikes as well as weapons defences are a part of Judo, but only in pre-arranged forms (kata) and are not allowed in Judo competition or free practice[1].

Judo was originally considered to be a form of Jujutsu and was known as Kano Jujutsu, though it came to be considered a separate martial art[2][3][4]. The practicers of this discipline are called "judoka" (柔道家, "judo performer")[5], and the judo uniform is called "judogi" (柔道着 or 柔道 衣 , "judo attire")[6].
History

Judo was founded in 1882 by Kano Jigoro and it originates from jūjutsu, a traditional Japanese martial arts. In the same year, Kano enstablished Kōdōkan Judo Institute in Tokyo, marking judo's formal birth.[7]

As a kid, Kano encountered bullying in school because of his small size, which motivated him seek training in jujutsu for self-defense purposes[8]. However, during the Meiji era (1868-1912) Japan was undergoing a significant Westernization[9], which made many Jujutsu instructors to find alternative careers, making it difficult to find Judo instructors[10]. After consulting former jujutsu teachers, Kano was referred to Fukuda Hachinosuke[8], a teacher of jujutsu who had a small dojo where he taught to only five students. Fukuda was said to be more focused on technique over formal training, sowing the seeds of Kano's emphasis on randori (乱取り, free practice)[10].

Kano, becoming quickly the most skilled student in both randori and kata, ended up inheriting Fukuda's scrolls of the Fukuda Dojo, after the latter's death in 1880. After this, Kano kept training in another dojo under the guidance of Iso Masatomo, who put more emphasis on kata. After Iso's death in June 1881, Kano went to train in the dojo of Iikubo Tsunetoshi, who similarly to Fukuda had greater focus on randori[11].

In February 1882, Kano founded a school and dojo at the Eisho-ji, a small buddhist temple. Iikubo, Kano's last instructor, came three days a week to help Kano teach. Although Kano didn't get his Menkyo in Kitō-ry yet, and the temple would be called "Kodokan" only after two years from this point, this moment is regarded as the founding of the Kōdōkan Judo Institute[11]. Kano took resident and non-resident students, the first two being Tomita Tsunejirō and Shiro Saigo. In August, the following year, the pair were granted shodan (初段, "first rank", the lowest black belt rank) grades, the first that had been awarded in any martial art[11].