
judo
martial art
Written by
Fact-checked by
Last Updated: Feb 27, 2025 • Article History

Japanese:
    jūdō

Key People:
    Tani Ryōko
    Anton Geesink

Related Topics:
    Olympic Games
    mixed martial arts
    jujitsu
    Summer Olympic Games
    jūdōgi

Related Facts And Data:
    Ronda Rousey - Facts 

News • San Francisco Tenderloin police officers hold judo classes for neighborhood kids • Feb. 25, 2025, 2:43 AM ET (CBS)

judo, system of unarmed combat, now primarily a sport. The rules of the sport of judo are complex. The objective is to cleanly throw, to pin, or to master the opponent, the latter being done by applying pressure to arm joints or to the neck to cause the opponent to yield.

Techniques are generally intended to turn an opponent’s force to one’s own advantage rather than to oppose it directly. A ritual of courtesy in practice is intended to promote an attitude of calm readiness and confidence. The usual costume, known as jūdōgi, is a loose jacket and trousers of strong white cloth. White belts are worn by novices and black by masters, with intermediate grades denoted by other colours. Jūdōka (students of judo) perform the sport with bare feet.

Kanō Jigorō (1860–1938) collected the knowledge of the old jujitsu schools of the Japanese samurai and in 1882 founded his Kōdōkan School of judo (from the Chinese jou-tao, or roudao, meaning “gentle way”), the beginning of the sport in its modern form. Kanō eliminated the most dangerous techniques and stressed the practice of randori (free practice), although he also preserved the classical techniques of jujitsu (jūjutsu) in the kata (forms) of judo. By the 1960s judo associations had been established in most countries and affiliated to the International Judo Federation, which is headquartered in Budapest, Hungary.
Assorted sports balls including a basketball, football, soccer ball, tennis ball, baseball and others.
Britannica Quiz
American Sports Nicknames

Men’s judo competitions were first included at the Olympic Games in Tokyo in 1964 and were held regularly from 1972. World judo championships for women began in 1980, and women’s Olympic competition began in 1992. Japan, Korea, France, Germany, and Great Britain have consistently fielded the strongest teams in the Olympics, as did the Soviet Union during its existence.

Judo’s direction has changed since its inception. Kanō designed judo to be a safe, cooperative method of physical education. Jūdōka spend a great amount of time learning to fall safely. Even in randori, the person performing the throw (the tori) helps the person receiving (the uke) to the ground by holding onto his arm and guiding him to a safe fall. By contrast, in Western wrestling one does not help an opponent to fall, and coaches spend little if any time teaching their wrestlers how to fall safely. As judo competitions became more popular, however, jūdōka began to exhibit the competitive spirit more usually found in Western wrestlers; they began concentrating on judo as a sport rather than as a drill or a way of life. The inclusion of judo in the Olympic Games marked the turning point in this transformation.

This competitive spirit can be seen in the change in the attitude of many jūdōka in regard to scoring. Only clean throws demonstrating superior timing and a knowledge of body mechanics were rewarded with a score in the pre-Olympic period. Currently in judo, the scoring system awards an ippon (“one point”) for a conclusive technique that wins a match by its successful execution, a waza-ari (half point), and minor points (called yuko). In a major shift from traditional judo, in a modern match a jūdōka will often play conservatively and work for a win based only on partial scores from minor points, rather than risking all in the attempt for an ippon. This shift to competitive judo has been aided by the success of European and Russian jūdōka, influenced by their strong wrestling traditions and in particular the Russian development of sambo (which was itself based upon judo).
Dakin Burdick
martial art
Table of Contents
Introduction
References & Edit History
Related Topics
Images & Videos
karate Tokyo Metropolitan Police Academy: martial-arts training
How to become a karate champion
Watch a mixed martial arts tournament in London
How to learn karate
Quizzes
Assorted sports balls including a basketball, football, soccer ball, tennis ball, baseball and others.
American Sports Nicknames
People in a gym in martial arts training exercising Taekwondo, the trainer has a black belt.
Quick Quiz: Martial Arts
Related Questions

    When did Jet Li make his film debut?
    When did Jet Li start training in martial arts?
    What is Bruce Lee famous for?
    How did Bruce Lee die?

Sports & Recreation
Olympic Sports
karate
karate Karate black belts sparring.
martial art
Written and fact-checked by
Last Updated: Jan 31, 2025 • Article History

Key People:
    Bruce Lee
    Jet Li

Related Topics:
    judo
    capoeira
    kendo
    tai chi chuan
    karate

News • Parents frustrated by school bullying turn to martial arts and self-defence to promote confidence • Mar. 2, 2025, 8:20 AM ET (ABC News (Australia))

martial art, any of various fighting sports or skills, mainly of East Asian origin, such as kung fu (Pinyin gongfu), judo, karate, and kendō.

Martial arts can be divided into the armed and unarmed arts. The former include archery, spearmanship, and swordsmanship; the latter, which originated in China, emphasize striking with the feet and hands or grappling. In Japan, traditionally a warrior’s training emphasized archery, swordsmanship, unarmed combat, and swimming in armour. Members of other classes interested in combat concentrated on arts using the staff, everyday work implements (such as thrashing flails, sickles, and knives), and unarmed combat. Perhaps the most versatile practice was ninjutsu, which was developed for military spies in feudal Japan and also included training in disguise, escape, concealment, geography, meteorology, medicine, and explosives. In modern times, derivatives of some of the armed martial arts, such as kendō (fencing) and kyūdō (archery), are practiced as sports. Derivatives of the unarmed forms of combat, such as judo, sumo, karate, and tae kwon do, are practiced, as are self-defense forms, such as aikido, hapkido, and kung fu. Simplified forms of tai chi chuan (taijiquan), a Chinese form of unarmed combat, are popular as healthful exercise, quite divorced from martial origins. Derivatives of many of the armed and unarmed forms are practiced as a means of spiritual development.

The primary unifying aspect of the East Asian martial arts, which sets them apart from other martial arts, is the influence of Daoism and Zen Buddhism. This influence has resulted in a strong emphasis on the mental and spiritual state of the practitioner, a state in which the rationalizing and calculating functions of the mind are suspended so that the mind and body can react immediately as a unit, reflecting the changing situation around the combatant. When this state is perfected, the everyday experience of the dualism of subject and object vanishes. Since this mental and physical state is also central to Daoism and Zen, and must be experienced to be grasped, many of their adherents practice the martial arts as a part of their philosophical and spiritual training. Conversely, numerous practitioners of the martial arts take up the practice of these philosophies.
Assorted sports balls including a basketball, football, soccer ball, tennis ball, baseball and others.
Britannica Quiz
American Sports Nicknames

The 20th century witnessed a significant growth in the popularity of East Asian martial arts in the West, and both judo (1964) and tae kwon do (2000) were added to the Olympic Games as full medal sports. By the early 21st century a syncretic discipline known as mixed martial arts, which incorporated fighting techniques from various cultural traditions, had also achieved prominence.

Start a Wiki
Sign In
Fan Central
Current
Skip to content
Martial Arts Wiki
161
pages

    Explore
    Wiki Content
    Community

in: Article stubs, Japanese Martial Arts, Needs References	
Judo	
Sign in to edit
Judo
Have an image of this martial art?
Then please upload it!
Also called 	Kano Jujutsu
Country of origin 	Japan
Parent arts 	Jujutsu
Descendant arts 	Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, Sambo
Focus 	Throwing


Judo (柔道, jūdō), meaning "gentle way", is a modern Japanese martial art and combat sport, that originated in Japan in the late nineteenth century. Its most prominent feature is its competitive element, where the object is to either throw one's opponent to the ground, pin the opponent to the ground, or force an opponent to submit by a joint lock or choke. Strikes as well as weapons defences are a part of Judo, but only in pre-arranged forms (kata) and are not allowed in Judo competition or free practice[1].

Judo was originally considered to be a form of Jujutsu and was known as Kano Jujutsu, though it came to be considered a separate martial art[2][3][4]. The practicers of this discipline are called "judoka" (柔道家, "judo performer")[5], and the judo uniform is called "judogi" (柔道着 or 柔道 衣 , "judo attire")[6].
History

Judo was founded in 1882 by Kano Jigoro and it originates from jūjutsu, a traditional Japanese martial arts. In the same year, Kano enstablished Kōdōkan Judo Institute in Tokyo, marking judo's formal birth.[7]

As a kid, Kano encountered bullying in school because of his small size, which motivated him seek training in jujutsu for self-defense purposes[8]. However, during the Meiji era (1868-1912) Japan was undergoing a significant Westernization[9], which made many Jujutsu instructors to find alternative careers, making it difficult to find Judo instructors[10]. After consulting former jujutsu teachers, Kano was referred to Fukuda Hachinosuke[8], a teacher of jujutsu who had a small dojo where he taught to only five students. Fukuda was said to be more focused on technique over formal training, sowing the seeds of Kano's emphasis on randori (乱取り, free practice)[10].

Kano, becoming quickly the most skilled student in both randori and kata, ended up inheriting Fukuda's scrolls of the Fukuda Dojo, after the latter's death in 1880. After this, Kano kept training in another dojo under the guidance of Iso Masatomo, who put more emphasis on kata. After Iso's death in June 1881, Kano went to train in the dojo of Iikubo Tsunetoshi, who similarly to Fukuda had greater focus on randori[11].

In February 1882, Kano founded a school and dojo at the Eisho-ji, a small buddhist temple. Iikubo, Kano's last instructor, came three days a week to help Kano teach. Although Kano didn't get his Menkyo in Kitō-ry yet, and the temple would be called "Kodokan" only after two years from this point, this moment is regarded as the founding of the Kōdōkan Judo Institute[11]. Kano took resident and non-resident students, the first two being Tomita Tsunejirō and Shiro Saigo. In August, the following year, the pair were granted shodan (初段, "first rank", the lowest black belt rank) grades, the first that had been awarded in any martial art[11].
History and Culture

In May 1882 Jigoro Kano was inspired by traditional forms of combat to create a method of physical, intellectual and moral education, which he named judo.

Initially considered as a self-defence system, judo is step by step recognized for its educational value, its benefits for the development of the body and the character.

Judo became an Olympic sport in the Tokyo Games in 1964, and thus became universal. The International Judo Federation today brings together more than 200 national federations and 5 continental unions.

Jujutsu: The Kano Method 

In the early twentieth century, the Western world discovered the artistic beauty and the military power of Japanese civilization and the effectiveness of strong Japanese soldiers based on their warrior spirit, the bushido, and their fighting techniques, Jujutsu. In many countries, the Japanese art is introduced in military curriculum. Jujutsu also appears on the stage of music halls, circuses and fairs.

Jujutsu in the World

In the USA and in many countries of the world, Jujutsu first spreads in the army and the police. At the same time, the martial art is taught in fitness centers (Sandow in England Desbonnet in France, the McFadden in the USA, etc.)

Jujutsu and the Media

Present in cartoons and songs, Jujutsu is used in numerous commercials and books or even correspondence courses that promise the technical secrets that make you invincible.

Jujutsu and Women

The art of the ‘weak against the strong’ is not reserved for men, and women start practicing the Japanese art early on. In London, the "jujutsuffragettes" used the Japanese art as a tool in the service of their political struggle to gain the right to vote.

The Judo of Kano: Philosophy and Education 

Small and bullied by his classmates, Jigoro Kano wanted to strengthen his body and learn to defend himself. He studied Jujutsu but soon realized that the fight focused on a powerful body and not on the spiritual and educational dimension of people.

Kano removed the dangerous Jujutsu techniques, by improving the art of falling. He imposed that both fighters grab each other and created his own method by synthesizing the oldest forms of defence. In 1882, he opened a dojo that he called the Kodokan, the "Place where the way is studied".

Kodokan Judo

Judo techniques were divided into three categories: throws or nage waza, controls or katame waza and kicks or atemi waza. In competition, atemi waza are not allowed.

Judo is taught through randori, free practice, kata, imposed forms, and mondo, exchanges based on the values, the philosophy or any subject related to judo, between the students and their teacher.

The emblem of the Kodokan is an octagonal mirror, the symbol of truth, the central red circle expressing a right and sincere spirit.

In 1922, Kano created the Cultural Society of the Kodokan. He writes the two maxims that define the philosophy of his method: Seiryoku zenyo ("The best use of energy") and Jita Kyoei ("Mutual welfare and benefit").

In 1909, Kano was appointed to the International Olympic Committee. He became the first IOC Asian member and devoted his life to the development of education through judo and through sports in Japan and around the world.

Kano’s Journeys

    1889 Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam, Paris, Berlin
    1912 5th Olympic Games in Stockholm, Vienne, Paris, London
    1920 7th Olympic Games in Anvers, Paris, London
    1928 9th Olympic Games in Amsterdam, Berlin, Paris, Rome, China
    1932 10th Olympic Games in Los Angeles, Vancouver, Seattle, Hawaii
    1933 Moscow, Stuttgart, Berlin, London, Paris, Madrid
    1934 Moscow, Warsaw, Vienna, Belgrade, Paris, London, Naples, Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai
    1936 11th Olympic Games in Berlin, Seattle, Vancouver, New York, Bucharest, Paris, London
    1938 Singapore, Vancouver, Cairo

Judo in the World

Thanks to the efforts of Kano and his disciples, Kodokan Judo, developed within the Japanese emigrant communities (USA, Brazil, Canada) as well as in Germany, Britain and the British-influenced countries.

In France, from 1940, a westernized variant of the Kano method was developed by professor Kawaishi, with the assistance of an engineer, Moshe Feldenkrais.

The Kawaishi Method is very successful in Europe and throughout the French-influenced countries. 

The Kawaishi Method

The belt colour embodies the expertise of the judoka. Beginners successively wear a white belt, yellow, orange, green, blue and brown before passing a special examination (technical and competition) to obtain the rank of black belt, or dan (1st to 10th dan). The colour belt system was developed in England in the mid-1920s  and gained in popularity thanks to the Kawaishi Method.

Women's Judo

In 1923, Jigoro Kano opened a women's section of the Kodokan. He focused on the technical study and on kata but did not allow the practice in competition considered dangerous to the health of future mothers. Keiko Fukuda, granddaughter of Hachinosuke Fukuda, who taught Jujutsu to Kano, dedicated her life to spreading women's judo worldwide.

Judo as a Sport

Official sporting events started to take place in the early 20th century. And was in Germany on August 11th, 1932, that the European Judo Union was created. The first European Championships were held in Dresden in 1934. The Kano Method was chosen as a demonstration sport for the Tokyo Olympic Games in 1940, which never took place because of the Second World War. It was not until the 1964 Olympic Games that judo officially entered the Olympic programme.

European Judo Union and International Judo Federation

The European Judo Union was reconstituted after World War II. On July 11, 1951 in London, its representatives (Great Britain, France, Italy, Belgium, The Netherlands, Germany, Austria and Switzerland) received the candidacy of Argentina and the International Judo Federation was created. The Italian Aldo Torti became the first President of the IJF.

Presidents of the International Judo Federation

    1951-1952 Aldo Torti, Italy
    1952-1965 Risei Kano, Japan
    1965-1979 Charles Palmer, Great Britain
    1979-1987 Shigeyoshi Matsumae, Japan
    1987-1989 Sarkis Kaloghian, Argentina
    1989-1991 Lawrie Hargrave, New-Zealand
    1991-1995 Luis Baguena, Spain
    1995-2007 Yong Sung Park, South Korea
    2007-… Marius L.Vizer, Austria

Olympic Judo

Judo as a sport grew rapidly in the years following World War II.

    1951: European Championships in Paris
    1956: 1st World Championships in Tokyo (Competition without weight category)
    1961: 3rd World Championships in Paris (Competition without weight category)
    1964: Olympic Games in Tokyo (-68 kg ; -80 kg ; +80 kg ; Open)
    1980: 1st female World Championships in New-York
    1988: Female judo is present in the Seoul Olympic Games as a demonstration sport
    1992: Since the Barcelona Olympic Games, both male and female competition are part of the Olympic programme.


American Traditional Jujutsu Association Judo Student Manual
Copyright 2016 Back to Menu 2-1
Chapter 2
The History of Kodokan Judo
The art of Jujutsu has many variations of the art, which leads to a diversity of approaches. Jujutsu schools (ryū) may
utilize all forms of grappling techniques to some degree (i.e. throwing, trapping, joint locks, holds, gouging, biting,
disengagements, striking, and kicking). In addition to jujutsu, many schools teach the use of weapons. While armed
and unarmed combat has been around for the entire history of mankind, it has been suggested that Jujutsu, as a
formal means of teaching, has been around for 600 to 1,000 years.
Judo, meaning "gentle way", is a modern martial art, combat and Olympic sport created in Japan in 1882 by Jigoro
Kano. Its most prominent feature is its competitive element, where the objective is to either throw or takedown an
opponent to the ground, immobilize or otherwise subdue an opponent with a pin, or force an opponent to submit
with a joint lock or a choke. Strikes and thrusts by hands and feet as well as weapons defenses are a part of Judo,
but only in pre-arranged forms (kata) and are not allowed in Judo competition or free practice (randori). A Judo
practitioner is called a Judoka.
The philosophy and subsequent pedagogy developed for Judo became the model for other modern Japanese martial
arts that developed from koryu, traditional schools. The worldwide spread of Judo has led to the development of a
number of offshoots such as Sambo and Brazilian jiu-jitsu.
The early history of Judo is inseparable from its founder, Japanese polymath and educator Jigoro Kano, (1860-
1938), born Shinnosuke Kano. Kano was born into a relatively affluent family. His father, Jirosaku, was the second
son of the head priest of the Shinto Hiyoshi shrine in Shiga Prefecture. He married Sadako Kano, daughter of the
owner of Kiku-Masamune sake brewing company and was adopted by the family, changing his name to Kano, and
ultimately became an official in the Bakufu government.
Jigoro Kano had an academic upbringing and, from the age of seven, he studied English, Japanese calligraphy and
the Four Confucian Texts under a number of tutors. When he was fourteen, Kano began boarding at an English-
medium school, Ikuei-Gijuku in Shiba, Tokyo. The culture of bullying endemic at this school was the catalyst that
caused Kano to seek out a Jujutsu dojo (training place) at which to train.
Early attempts to find a jujutsu teacher who was willing to take him on met with little success. With the fall of the
Tokugawa shogunate in the Meiji Restoration of 1868, jujutsu had become unfashionable in an increasingly
westernized Japan. Many of those who had once taught the art had been forced out of teaching or become so
disillusioned with it that they had simply given up. Nakai Umenari, an acquaintance of Kano's father and a former
soldier, agreed to show him kata, but not to teach him. The caretaker of his father's second house, Katagiri Ryuji,
also knew jujutsu, but would not teach it as he believed it was no longer of practical use. Another frequent visitor to
Kano's father's house, Imai Genshiro of Kyushin-ryu school of jujutsu, also refused. Several years passed before he
finally found a willing teacher.
In 1877, as a student at the Tokyo-Kaisei school (soon to become part of the newly founded Tokyo Imperial
University), Kano learned that many jujutsu teachers had been forced to pursue alternative careers, frequently
opening Seikotsu-in (traditional osteopathy practices). After inquiring at a number of these, Kano was referred to
Fukuda Hachinosuke (c.1828-1880), a teacher of the Tenjin Shin'yo-ryu of jujutsu, who had a small nine mat dojo
where he taught five students. Fukuda is said to have emphasized technique over formal exercise, sowing the seeds
of Kano's emphasis on randori (free practice) in Judo.
On Fukuda’s death in 1880, Kano, who had become his keenest and most able student in both randori and kata (pre-
arranged forms), was given the densho (scrolls) of the Fukuda dojo. Kano chose to continue his studies at another
Tenjin Shin'yo-ryu school, that of Iso Masatomo (c.1820-1881). Iso placed more emphasis on the practice of kata,
and entrusted randori instruction to assistants, increasingly to Kano. Iso died in June 1881 and Kano went on to
study at the dojo of Iikubo Tsunetoshi (1835-1889) of Kito-ryu. Like Fukuda, Iikubo placed much emphasis on
randori, with Kito-ryu having a greater focus on nage-waza, throwing techniques.
American Traditional Jujutsu Association Judo Student Manual
Copyright 2016 Back to Menu 2-2
In February 1882, Kano founded a school and dojo at the Eisho-ji, a Buddhist temple in what was then the Shitaya
ward of Tokyo (now the Higashi Ueno district of Taite ward). Iikubo, Kano's Kito-ryu instructor, attended the dojo
three days a week to help teach. Two years would pass before the temple would be called by the name Kodokan
("place for expounding the way") and although Kano had not yet received his Menkyo (certificate of mastery) in
Kito-ryu, this is now regarded as the Kodokan founding.
The Eisho-ji dojo was a relatively small affair, consisting of a twelve mat training area. Kano took in resident and
non-resident students, the first two being Tsunejiro Tomita and Shiro Saigo. In August, the following year, the both
Tomita and Saigo were granted shodan (first rank) grades, the first that had been awarded in any martial art.
Central to Kano's vision for Judo were the principles of seiryoku zen'yo (maximum efficiency, minimum effort) and
jita kyoei (mutual welfare and benefit). He illustrated the application of seiryoku zen'yo with the concept of ju yoku
go o seisu, softness controls hardness.
In short, resisting a more powerful opponent will result in your defeat, while adjusting to and evading your
opponent's attack will cause him to lose his balance, his power will be reduced, and you will defeat him. This can
apply whatever the relative values of power, thus making it possible for weaker opponents to beat significantly
stronger ones. This is the theory of ju yoku goo seisu. Kano realized that seiryoku zen'yo, initially conceived as a
jujutsu concept, had a wider philosophical application. Coupled with the Confucianist-influenced jita kyoei, the
wider application shaped the development of Judo from a martial art to a martial way. Kano rejected techniques that
did not conform to these principles and emphasized the importance of efficiency in the execution of techniques. He
was convinced that practice of jujutsu while conforming to these ideals was a route to self-improvement and the
betterment of society in general. He was, however, acutely conscious of the Japanese public's negative perception of
jujutsu. Kano believed that "jujutsu" was insufficient to describe his art: although Jutsu means “art” or "means", it
implies a method consisting of a collection of physical techniques. Accordingly, he changed the second character to
do, meaning way, road or path, which implies a more philosophical context than jutsu and has a common origin with
the Chinese concept of tao. Thus Kano renamed it Judo.


Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia

    Donate
    Create account
    Log in

Contents
(Top)
Nage-waza (投げ技): throwing techniques

Katame-waza (固技): grappling techniques

Atemi-waza (当て身技): body-striking techniques

    Uke-waza (受け技): blocks and parries
    Ukemi (受け身): receiving techniques or breakfall techniques
    Kappo (活法): resuscitation techniques
    See also
    Footnotes
    Sources
    External links

List of judo techniques

    Article
    Talk

    Read
    Edit
    View history

Tools

Appearance
Text

    Small
    Standard
    Large

Width

    Standard
    Wide

Color (beta)

    Automatic
    Light
    Dark

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
	
This article's lead section may be too short to adequately summarize the key points. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. (November 2021)

This is a list of judo techniques. They are categorized into throwing techniques (nage-waza), grappling techniques (katame-waza), body-striking techniques (atemi-waza), blocks and parries (uke-waza), receiving/breakfall techniques (ukemi), and resuscitation techniques (kappo).

The above categorization of techniques is orthogonal to the categorization of domains of combat, which include tachi-waza (立技, standing) and ne-waza (寝技, ground). Some techniques can be used only in one of these domains, and some can be used in both.[1] In practice, ne-waza is often used as a synonym of katame-waza (固技, grappling techniques),[2] or some of its subcategories, most often osaekomi-waza (抑込技, holding techniques) and possibly also kansetsu-waza (関節技, joint techniques).[3]

Gokyo-no-waza (五教の技, Five sets of techniques) is yet another subcategorization of nage-waza into 5 main groups, as well as groups of preserved techniques (habukareta-waza) and new techniques (shinmeisho-no-waza). This grouping has been made for pedagogical purposes ("Learning the throws in order is the key to mastery."[4]).
Nage-waza (投げ技): throwing techniques
Judo Nage-waza
Tachi-waza (立技): standing techniques
Te-waza (手技): hand throwing techniques

    Ippon seoinage (一本背負投): Single-handed shoulder throw
    Kata guruma (肩車): Shoulder wheel
    Kibisu gaeshi (踵返): One-hand reversal
    Morote gari (双手刈): Two-hand reap
    Obi otoshi (帯落): Belt drop
    Seoi nage (背負投): Shoulder throw
    Seoi otoshi (背負落): Shoulder drop
    Sukui nage (掬投): Scoop throw
    Sumi otoshi (隅落): Corner drop
    Tai otoshi (体落): Body drop
    Uchi mata sukashi (内股透): Inner thigh void throw
    Uki otoshi (浮落): Floating drop
    Yama arashi (山嵐): Mountain storm
    Kouchi gaeshi (小内返): Small inner reap reversal
    Kuchiki taoshi (朽木倒): Single leg takedown

Unrecognized techniques

    Te Guruma (手車): Hand wheel. The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Sukui nage.
    Morote seoi nage: Double handed shoulder throw
    Eri seoi nage: Collar shoulder throw
    Kata seoi nage: Shoulder throw with both hands

Koshi-waza (腰技): hip throwing techniques

    Daki age (抱上): Hugging high lift. (Forbidden in competition.)
    Hane goshi (跳腰): Spring hip throw
    Harai goshi (払腰): Sweeping hip throw
    Koshi guruma (腰車): Hip wheel
    O goshi (大腰): Full hip throw
    Sode tsurikomi goshi (袖釣込腰): Sleeve lifting-and-pulling hip throw
    Tsuri goshi (釣腰): Lifting hip throw
    Tsurikomi goshi (釣込腰): Lifting-and-pulling hip throw
    Uki goshi (浮腰): Floating hip throw
    Ushiro goshi (後腰): Rear hip throw
    Utsuri goshi (移腰): Shifting hip throw

Unrecognized techniques

    Tobi goshi (飛腰): Flying/surfing hip throw
    Ushiro Guruma(後車): Rear wheel

Ashi-waza (足技): foot throwing techniques

    Ashi guruma (足車): Leg wheel
    De Ashi harai (出足払): Advanced foot sweep
    Hane goshi gaeshi (跳腰返): Hip spring counter
    Harai goshi gaeshi (払腰返): Hip sweep counter
    Harai tsurikomi ashi (払釣込足): Lift-pull foot sweep
    Hiza guruma (膝車): Knee wheel
    Kosoto gake (小外掛): Small outer hook
    Kosoto gari (小外刈): Small outer reap
    Kouchi gari (小内刈): Small inner reap
    O guruma (大車): Large wheel
    Okuri Ashi Harai (送足払): Sliding foot sweep
    Osoto gaeshi (大外返): Big outer reap counter
    Osoto gari (大外刈): Big outer reap
    Osoto guruma (大外車): Big outer wheel
    Osoto otoshi (大外落): Big outer drop
    Ouchi gaeshi (大内返): Big inner reap counter
    Ouchi gari (大内刈): Big inner reap
    Sasae tsurikomi ashi (支釣込足): Propping and drawing ankle throw
    Tsubame gaeshi (燕返): Swallow counter
    Uchi mata (内股): Inner-thigh
    Uchi mata gaeshi (内股返): Inner-thigh counter

Unrecognized techniques:

    Osoto gake (大外掛): Great outer hook
    Kouchi gake (小内掛): Small inner hook
    Ouchi gake (大内掛): Great inner hook

Sutemi-waza(捨身技): sacrifice techniques
Ma-sutemi waza (真捨身技): "Real" (ma) sacrifice projections

    Hikikomi gaeshi (引込返): Pulling in reversal
    Sumi gaeshi (隅返): Corner reversal
    Tawara gaeshi (俵返): Rice bag reversal throw
    Tomoe nage (巴投): Circle throw
    Ura nage (裏投): Rear throw

Yoko-sutemi waza (橫捨身技): side sacrifice projections

    Daki wakare (抱分): High separation
    Hane makikomi (跳巻込): Springing wraparound
    Harai makikomi (払巻込): Hip sweep wraparound
    Kani basami (蟹挟): Crab or scissors throw. (Forbidden in competition.)
    Kawazu gake (河津掛): One-leg entanglement. (Forbidden in competition.)
    Osoto makikomi (大外巻込): Big outer wraparound
    Soto makikomi (外巻込): Outer wraparound
    Tani otoshi (谷落): Valley drop
    Uchi makikomi (内巻込): Inner wraparound
    Uchi mata makikomi (内股巻込): Inner thigh wraparound
    Uki waza (浮技): Floating technique
    Yoko gake (横掛): Side prop
    Yoko guruma (横車): Side wheel
    Yoko otoshi (横落): Side drop
    Yoko wakare (横分): Side separation
    Ko-uchi-makikomi (小内巻込): Small inner wrap-around throw

Unrecognized techniques

    Tama guruma (球車):Jade wheel. The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Kata guruma.
    Ude gaeshi (腕返): Arm reversal. The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Yoko wakare.
    Yoko Tomoe Nage (横巴投): Side circle throw. The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Tomoe nage.
    Kubi Nage Neck throw. The Kodokan officially also refers to this thechnique as Koshi guruma.

Katame-waza (固技): grappling techniques
Main article: Katame waza
Osaekomi-waza (抑込技): pins or matholds

    Kesa-gatame (袈裟固): Scarf hold
    Kuzure-kesa-gatame (崩袈裟固): Broken scarf hold
    Ushiro-kesa-gatame (後袈裟固): Reverse Scarf Hold. The Kodokan officially also referred to this technique as kuzure-kesa-gatame until 2017.[5][6]
    Kata-gatame (肩固): Shoulder hold
    Kami-shiho-gatame (上四方固): Upper four quarter hold down
    Kuzure-kami-shiho-gatame (崩上四方固): Broken upper four quarter hold down
    Tate-shiho-gatame (縦四方固): Vertical four quarter hold
    Yoko-shiho-gatame (横四方固): Side four quarter hold
    Ura-gatame (裹固) (1/1/2014 this is now recognized as a valid competition technique)
    Uki-gatame (浮固): Floating hold

Unrecognized techniques

    Ura-kesa-gatame (裹袈裟固): The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Kuzure-kesa-gatame.
    Sangaku-Gatame : Triangular Hold (三角固): The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Kuzure-kami-shiho-gatame.
    Mune gatame: Chest Hold (胸固め): The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Kuzure-yoko-shiho-gatame.

Shime-waza (絞技): chokes or strangles
Main article: Shime-Waza

    Do-jime (胴絞): Trunk strangle. Do-jime is a prohibited technique in Judo,[5] and is considered a 'slight infringement' according to IJF rules, Section 27: Prohibited acts and penalties, article 21[7]
    Gyaku Jūji-jime (逆十字絞): Reverse cross strangle
    Nami-juji-jime (並十字絞): Normal cross strangle
    Kata-juji-jime (片十字絞): Half cross strangle
    Hadaka-jime (裸絞): Naked strangle
    Kata-ha-jime (片羽絞): Single wing strangle
    Kata-te-jime (片手絞): One-hand strangle
    Okuri-eri-jime (送襟絞): Sliding lapel strangle
    Ryo-te-jime (両手絞): Two-hand strangle
    Sankaku-jime (三角絞): Triangular strangle, triangle choke
    Sode-guruma-jime (袖車絞): Sleeve wheel strangle (Eziquiel/Ezekiel choke)
    Tsukkomi-jime (突込絞): Thrust choke

Unrecognized techniques

    Jigoku-jime (地獄絞): Hell strangle[8] The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Okuri-eri-jime.
    Koshi-jime: The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Okuri-eri-jime.
    Ura-juji-jime (裹十字絞): The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Kata-juji-jime.
    Arm triangle choke: The Kodokan officially considers this an osaekomi-waza Kata-gatame.

Kansetsu-waza (関節技): joint locks

    Ashi-garami (足緘): Leg entanglement. (Forbidden in competition.)
    Ude-garami (腕緘): Arm entanglement or "figure-four" key lock
    Ude-hishigi-ashi-gatame (腕挫脚固): Side-lying arm bar
    Ude-hishigi-hara-gatame (腕挫腹固): Side-extended arm bar, lower stomach against opponent's elbow.
    Ude-hishigi-hiza-gatame (腕挫膝固): Knee arm bar.
    Ude-hishigi-juji-gatame (腕挫十字固): Back-lying perpendicular arm bar.
    Ude-hishigi-sankaku-gatame (腕挫三角固): Triangular arm bar.
    Ude-hishigi-te-gatame (腕挫手固): Hand lock.
    Ude-hishigi-ude-gatame (腕挫腕固): Arm lock.
    Ude-hishigi-waki-gatame (腕挫腋固): Armpit arm entanglement.

Unrecognized techniques

    Ashi-Dori-Garami: Entangled leg dislocation
    Hiza-Hishigi: Knee crush
    Ashi-hishigi (足挫): Straight ankle lock
    Sankaku-garami (三角緘): Triangular entanglement.[9][10][11] The Kodokan officially also refers to this technique as Ude-hishigi-hiza-gatame.

Attack patterns
Opponent on back

    Near knee guard pass
    Simple guard pass
    Stacking guard pass

On own back

    Elevator Sweep
    Push Sweep
    Yoko-gaeshi: Side reversal
    Hasami-gaeshi: Swissor sweep
    Shoulder pin rollover
    Ude-kakae

Opponent on all fours

    Daki Wakare
    Turtle Flip Over
    Ura-gatame (裹固)
    Turnover from Koshi-jime
    Suso-sukui-nage
    Yoko-obi-tori-gaeshi
    Obi-tori-sumi-gaeshi
    Obi-tori-yoko-mawashi

On all own fours

    Back Mount Escape
    Foot lock counter to rear-mounted position
    Switch back
    Hikouki or Hikoki-Nage: Aeroplane

Extracting own leg

    Niju-garami: Double entanglement
    Immobilisation of arm

Atemi-waza (当て身技): body-striking techniques
Main article: Judo atemi waza

Although taught within kata (型 or 形) and sometimes used within informal randori (乱取), striking techniques are forbidden in standard judo competitions rules.
Ude-ate-waza (腕当て技): arm striking techniques
Kobushi-ate-waza: fist techniques

    Tsukkake or Tsuki-kake: Straight punch
    Mae-naname-ate: Front crossing blow
    Naname-tsuki or Mawashi-tsuki: Roundhouse punch or circular punch
    Tsuki-age or Ago-tsuki: Uppercut
    Uchi-oroshi or Uchi-kake: Downward strike or hammer fist
    Yoko-ate: Side strike or backfist
    Yoko-uchi: Strike to side
    Gammen-tsuki: Thrust punch or jab
    Kami-ate or Ue-ate: Upward blow
    Shimo-tsuki: Downward blow
    Ushiro-sumi-tsuki: Rear corner blow
    Ushiro-uchi: Rear blow
    Ushiro-tsuki: Rear strike (over shoulders)
    Ryote-tsuki: Two hand blow

Hiji-ate-waza: elbow techniques

    Mae-hiji-ate: Elbow blow
    Ushiro-hiji-ate: Rear elbow strike [pic]
    Age-hiji-ate: Rising elbow strike
    Shita-hiji-ate or Oroshi-hiji-ate : Downward elbow strike

Tegatana-ate-waza: knife hand techniques

    Kirioroshi: Downward knife hand cut
    Naname-uchi: Slanting knife hand blow [pic] [pic]

Yubisaki-ate-waza: fingertip techniques

    Tsuki-dashi: Hand Thrust
    Ryogan-tsuki: Strike both eyes with fingertips
    Suri-age: Face slide or forehead thrust [pic] [pic]
    Yahazu: Strikes with the V-shape of the hand
    Me-tsubushi: Whipping the back of fingers to strike opponent's eyes

Ashi-ate-waza (足当て技): leg striking techniques
Sekito-ate-waza (蹠頭当): ball of foot techniques

    Mae-keri (前蹴): Front kick [pic]
    Mae-naname-keri (前斜蹴): Front crossing kick or oblique kick
    Naname-keri (斜蹴) or Mawashi geri: Roundhouse Kick
    Taka-keri (高蹴): High front kick

Kakato-ate-waza: heel techniques

    Yoko-geri: Side kick
    Ushiro-geri: Backward kick
    Ashi-fumi: Foot stomp

Hiza-gashira-ate-waza: knee cap techniques

    Mae-hiza-ate: Front knee
    Yoko-hiza-ate: Side knee
    Hiza-otoshi: Dropping knee

Atama-ate-waza (頭当て技): head striking techniques

    Mae-atama-ate: Strike with the forehead
    Ushiro-atama-ate: Strike with the occiput
    Atama-tsuki: Head thrust

Kyusho (急所): vital spots
Main article: Kyusho

    Tento (天道/天倒): Top of the head, bregma
    Uto (鳥兎) or Miken (眉間): Between the eyes, nation
    Kasumi (霞): Temple of the head
    Jinchu (人中): Below the nose, philtrum
    Zen-keibu (前頸部): Front side of neck with the Adam's apple
    Gwanto or Kachikake or Shita-ago (下顎): Point of the chin
    Dokko (独鈷): Mastoid process
    Suigetsu (水月) or Mizu-ochi (水落): Solar plexus
    Denko (電光): Right lowest floating rib
    Getsuei (月影): Left lowest floating rib
    Myojo (明星): 1-inch below the belly button, hypogastrium
    Tsuri-gane (釣鐘) or Kokan (股間): Testicles
    Shitsu (膝) or Shita-kansetsu (下関節): Knee
    Ashi-no-ko (足の甲): The surface of foot

Uke-waza (受け技): blocks and parries

    Tenkan or Tenkai: Outside turning or body rotation
    Age-uke: Rising block [pic]
    Harai-uke: Sweeping block
    Tegatana-uke: Knife hand block [pic]
    Shotei-uke: Palm block
    Juji-uke: Cross block
    Hiki-uke: Grasping block [pic] [pic]
    Morote-uke: Two hand block [pic]

Ukemi (受け身): receiving techniques or breakfall techniques
Main article: Ukemi

    Ushiro-ukemi (後ろ受身): Backward breakfall
    Yoko-ukemi (横受け身): Sideways breakfall
    Mae-ukemi (前受け身): Forward breakfall
    Mae-mawari-ukemi (前回り受身) or Zempo-kaiten-ukemi: Forward roll

Kappo (活法): resuscitation techniques
Main article: Kappo

    Sasoi-katsu (誘活): Inductive method
    Eri-katsu (襟活): Lapel method
    So-katsu (総活): Composite method
    Kogan-katsu (睾丸活): Testicle-method

See also

    List of Kodokan Judo techniques
    Chokehold
    Grappling hold
    Joint lock
    Throw (grappling)

Footnotes

"Katame Waza vs Newaza • What's the Difference?". Jukido Academy. Retrieved February 19, 2025.
Kano, Jigoro (1986). Kodokan Judo. Kodansha International Ltd. p. 55.
"Ne waza (Ground techniques)". Judo Channel. Retrieved February 19, 2025.
Kano, Jigoro (1986). Kodokan Judo. Kodansha International Ltd. p. 59.
The Kodokan Judo Institute. Kodokan.Org classification of techniques Archived 2012-04-15 at the Wayback Machine. www.kodokan.org. URL last accessed March 4, 2006.
"柔道の技名称について". Kodokan. 2017-04-06. Retrieved 2019-03-03.
International Judo Federation.IJF Referee Rules Archived 2012-04-15 at the Wayback Machine. www.ijf.org. URL last accessed March 5, 2006
Wolfe, David. The David Brent Wolfe Dictionary of Japanese Martial Art Terms Archived 2005-02-11 at the Wayback Machine. pages.prodigy.net. URL last accessed February 11, 2006.
Inokuma, Isao; Sato, Nobuyuki (1987). Best Judo. Kodansha America. ISBN 0-87011-786-6.
United States Judo Association. Exam for all senior Judo ranks. www.uky.edu. URL last accessed February 5, 2006.

    Judo-club Hadamar. Judo von A - Z Archived 2005-05-06 at the Wayback Machine. www.judoclubhadamar.de. URL last accessed February 5, 2006. (In German)

Sources

    Ohlenkamp, Neil (2006) Judo Unleashed basic reference on judo. ISBN 0-07-147534-6.
    Ohlenkamp, Neil. The 67 Throws of Kodokan Judo. JudoInfo.com. URL last accessed March 6, 2006.
    Sources of kanji: [1], [2], [3], [4]
    The Kodokan Judo Institute. Kodokan.Org classification of techniques. www.kodokan.org. URL last accessed March 4, 2006.

External links
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Judo techniques.

    Techniques of Judo
    JudoVideo—Reference for the Kodokan judo techniques
    Medford Judo Academy - Techniques & Boards

    vte

Judo techniques
Official
Kodokan
techniques	
Nage-Waza
(throwing
techniques)
	
Dai Ikkyo	

    Deashi harai Hiza guruma Sasae tsurikomi ashi Uki goshi Osoto gari O goshi Ouchi gari Seoi nage

Dai Nikyo	

    Kosoto gari Kouchi gari Koshi guruma Tsurikomi goshi Okuriashi harai Tai otoshi Harai goshi Uchi mata

Dai Sankyo	

    Kosoto gake Tsuri goshi Yoko otoshi Ashi guruma Hane goshi Harai tsurikomi ashi Tomoe nage Kata guruma

Dai Yonkyo	

    Sumi gaeshi Tani otoshi Hane makikomi Sukui nage Utsuri goshi O guruma Soto makikomi Uki otoshi

Dai Gokyo	

    Osoto guruma Uki waza Yoko wakare Yoko guruma Ushiro goshi Ura nage Sumi otoshi Yoko gake

Habukareta-waza	

    Obi otoshi Seoi otoshi Yama arashi Osoto otoshi Daki wakare Hikikomi gaeshi Tawara gaeshi Uchi makikomi

Shinmeisho no waza	

    Morote gari Kuchiki taoshi Kibisu gaeshi Uchi mata sukashi Daki age Tsubame gaeshi Kouchi gaeshi Ouchi gaeshi Osoto gaeshi Harai goshi gaeshi Uchi mata gaeshi Hane goshi gaeshi Kani basami Osoto makikomi Kawazu gake Harai makikomi Uchi mata makikomi Sode tsurikomi goshi Ippon seoinage

Katame-waza
(pins and submissions)
	
Osaekomi-waza
(pins)
	

    Kuzure-kesa-gatame Hon-kesa-gatame Ushiro-kesa-gatame Kata-gatame Kami shiho gatame Kuzure-kami-shiho-gatame Yoko shiho gatame Tate-shiho-gatame Kesa-gatame

Shime-waza
(chokes and strangles)	

    Nami-juji-jime Gyaku-juji-jime Kata-juji-jime Hadaka-jime Okuri-eri-jime Kata-ha-jime Do-jime Sode-guruma-jime Kata-te-jime Ryo-te-jime Tsukkomi-jime Sankaku-jime Ura-juji-jime

Kansetsu-waza
(joint locks)
	

    Ude-garami Ude-hishigi-juji-gatame Ude-hishigi-ude-gatame Ude-hishigi-hiza-gatame Ude-hishigi-waki-gatame Ude-hishigi-hara-gatame Ashi-garami Ude-hishigi-ashi-gatame Ude-hishigi-te-gatame Ude-hishigi-sankaku-gatame

Kata	
Kodokan kata	

    Go-no-kata Itsutsu-no-kata Ju-no-kata Katame-no-kata Kime-no-kata Kodokan Goshin Jutsu Kodokan Joshi Goshin-Ho Koshiki-no-kata Nage-no-kata Seiryoku Zen'yo Kokumin Taiiku no Kata

Non-Kodokan Japanese kata	

    Go-no-sen-no-kata Katame-waza ura-no-kata Nage-Ura-no-kata Nanami-no-kata Kaeshi-no-kata

Non-Japanese kata	

    Budokwai Goshin jutsu Hikomi no Kata Hoho kata Kansetsu no kata Kyushin-no-kata Renraku-no-kata Rensa-no-kata

Category:

    Lists of judo techniques

    This page was last edited on 1 March 2025, at 20:43 (UTC).
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

    Privacy policy
    About Wikipedia
    Disclaimers
    Contact Wikipedia
    Code of Conduct
    Developers
    Statistics
    Cookie statement
    Mobile view

    Wikimedia Foundation
    Powered by MediaWiki

List of judo techniques
Add topic


Judo vs. Jiu-Jitsu: The Ultimate Comparison

Last Updated: Mar 16, 2025 | Martial Arts
Jiu Jitsu vs Judo

Judo and jiu-jitsu are both popular Japanese fighting styles that put a lot of focus into the groundwork. However, there are some distinct differences between these two styles that can make a big difference in a mixed martial arts match. It’s also a good idea for people considering both martial arts to look at them side by side before deciding which art to pursue.

Below you’ll find a guide to the differences and similarities between judo and jiu-jitsu. You’ll also get some tips for getting started with each fighting style. Read on to learn more about judo and jiu-jitsu and which one is the better fit for you.

Table of Contents

    The History of Judo vs. The History of Jiu-Jitsu
        The Rise of Judo From Jiu-Jitsu
        Are There Still Jiu-Jitsu Schools?
        Japanese Jiu-Jitsu vs. Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu
    How Judo and Jiu-Jitsu Are Similar
    How Judo and Jiu-Jitsu Are Different
        What Is the Biggest Difference Between Judo and Jiu-Jitsu?
    Is Judo or Jiu-Jitsu Better for Self-Defense?
    Is Jiu-Jitsu More Effective Than Judo?
    Judo vs. Jiu-Jitsu in Mixed Martial Arts
    Judo vs. Jiu-Jitsu in the Olympics
        Why Is Jiu-Jitsu Not in the Olympics?
    How to Choose Between Judo and Jiu-Jitsu
    Can You Learn Judo and Jiu-Jitsu at the Same Time?
    Judo and Jiu-Jitsu Are Both Effective Styles

The History of Judo vs. The History of Jiu-Jitsu

Both judo and jiu-jitsu originated on the island nation of Japan. However, jiu-jitsu is significantly older than judo and is the mother fighting style that judo evolved from. Jiu-jitsu, also known as jujutsu or “the gentle art”, was an unarmed fighting technique that was originally taught to the elite samurai warrior caste to use in case they were separated from their weapon.
The Rise of Judo From Jiu-Jitsu

When the samurai class was eliminated during the Meiji Restoration of the late 1800s, the martial arts schools of the time period were also cast into disregard. At this time, many jiu-jitsu dojos ended up closing. But one martial artist who wanted to save the technique, Jigoro Kano Shihan, rebranded it as “Kodokan Judo” at the martial arts school he opened in 1882. (Source: Kodokan Judo Institute)

This new school of martial arts in Japan focused on takedown moves and economy of movement, making it a popular hand-to-hand style for stopping a fight in its tracks. This emphasis on quick, efficient takedowns made it popular with the Japanese military and police, who quickly adopted it as part of their standardized martial arts training.
Are There Still Jiu-Jitsu Schools?

Even though Judo evolved out of Jiu-Jitsu, that doesn’t mean that Jiu-Jitsu went extinct as a fighting style. If anything, Jiu-Jitsu is more popular than ever.

This fighting style has only continued to evolve as it spread outside of Japan. Within Japan, sparring at jiu-jitsu schools became a popular way for warriors to challenge each other to duels peacefully under a government that no longer allowed armed civilians.

Japanese old-style jiu-jitsu is not the most popular form of the martial art that is currently practiced abroad. That honor goes to Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ). Brazilian jiu-jitsu is a martial arts style that is relatively new but has still gained enormous popularity over the 20th century, both in exclusive BJJ dojos and in mixed martial arts studios.
Japanese Jiu-Jitsu vs. Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu

Japanese jiu-jitsu and Brazilian jiu-jitsu are similar in that they’re both grappling-heavy styles that focus on taking down potentially larger and stronger opponents, but there are also some differences between the two styles of jiu-jitsu. Here are a few of them (Source: Way of Martial Arts):

    Japanese jiu-jitsu focuses more on strikes. Both of these styles of jiu-jitsu focus on getting an opponent down on the ground as quickly as possible, but there are more chokeholds, strangleholds, hand strikes, and other hand techniques used in Japanese jiu-jitsu to force an opponent down.
    Brazilian jiu-jitsu is more effective for competition. Brazilian jiu-jitsu is more popular than Japanese old-style jiu-jitsu in mixed martial arts, and it’s typically easier to find a Brazilian jiu-jitsu studio or dojo than it is to find one that specializes in Japanese jiu-jitsu.
    Japanese jiu-jitsu is better for self-defense. Brazilian jiu-jitsu is a popular competitive sport, but Japanese jiu-jitsu is more versatile and has more hand-to-hand techniques that are useful in a real-life fighting scenario. Japanese jiu-jitsu is better for self-defense, but any form of jiu-jitsu is going to be an effective self-defense style.
    Japanese and Brazilian jiu-jitsu use different forms of protection. Brazilian jiu-jitsu gis, or fighting robes, tend to be thicker to protect the martial artists while they’re rolling around on the ground. Japanese jiu-jitsu artists may use a groin guard to protect against low blows, while Brazilian jiu-jitsu artists typically wear mouthguards.
    Japanese jiu-jitsu and Brazilian jiu-jitsu training are different. Brazilian jiu-jitsu is very sparring-heavy and lessons can last up to an hour and a half of straight sparring between students. Japanese jiu-jitsu has multiple areas of focus other than one-on-one sparring, including break-fall techniques and strikes.

Japanese jiu-jitsu and Brazilian jiu-jitsu are both exciting fighting styles, but you may find it easier to find instructors in one style over another. Check around to see what martial arts studios are available before committing yourself to a single dojo.
How Judo and Jiu-Jitsu Are Similar

Since judo is a school of martial arts training that came out of jiu-jitsu, there are many ways in which these two fighting styles are similar. Here are a few of the biggest similarities between judo and jiu-jitsu:

    Judo and jiu-jitsu are grappling styles. Similar to wrestling, this means that a majority of the techniques in this fighting style focus on subduing your opponent on the ground in a fight rather than fighting them standing up. Grappling styles feature several chokeholds and other holds that are used to force an opponent into submission.
    Both styles teach how to escape a hold. Once your enemy gets you on the ground, mounts you, and pins you down, it’s very easy to lose a fight from this point on. Judo and jiu-jitsu teach you how to remove yourself from a pinned ground position and regain the upper hand on your opponent.
    Both styles offer students a variety of general benefits. From improved physical health to a more effective mind-body connection, learning any martial art can be beneficial for your mind, body, and spirit. Either judo or jiu-jitsu will help you achieve this level of physical, mental, and emotional discipline.
    Both styles use fighting robes and a belted ranking system. Like many martial arts, judo and jiu-jitsu students are ranked on their level of progression in the sport according to colored belts that easily distinguish them from each other in the ring.

Since judo and jiu-jitsu are similar in many ways, there isn’t a lot of pressure to choose one over the other. The benefits you receive from pursuing either martial art are pretty equivalent. It all depends on your personal fighting style and preferences for study.
How Judo and Jiu-Jitsu Are Different

While judo and jiu-jitsu are similar in many ways, they also have some distinct differences that set them apart from each other. Here are a few of the ways that judo and jiu-jitsu differ from each other:

    Jiu-jitsu is a much older sport. Jiu-jitsu (or jujutsu) is a Japanese umbrella term that references many different grappling fighting styles that have existed in Japan over the centuries. As an offshoot of jiu-jitsu, judo is a newer fighting style that incorporates many features of jiu-jitsu.
    In Judo, you can win with a throw. In jiu-jitsu, you can’t. In competition, judo puts as much focus on takedowns from a standing position as it does on the ground holds. In a judo match, you can win without ever going to the mat.
    Judo is scored on several different moves. Jiu-jitsu is mainly scored on submissions and holds. Since judo incorporates more standing combat, fighters can be scored in competition on several standing techniques such as throws and pins. Jiu-jitsu focuses more on chokes and ground holds. (Source: Absolute MMA)
    Judo matches tend to be faster. Since judo focuses on taking down an opponent as quickly as possible, a judo match can be over in a matter of seconds. Jiu-jitsu matches tend to run a little bit longer since both opponents end up grappling on the mat.

Even though judo and jiu-jitsu are slightly different, they’re still essentially the same style of unarmed fighting. If you can learn judo, you can learn jiu-jitsu and vice versa. In fact, many martial artists study both techniques in order to broaden their repertoire of techniques.
What Is the Biggest Difference Between Judo and Jiu-Jitsu?

The biggest difference between judo and jiu-jitsu is in the philosophy that drives the two fighting styles. Jiu-jitsu was originally conceived as a martial art designed to take the place of weapons in a culture that had removed them from daily life. But judo was designed to better society and overall has a more holistic philosophy.

    The philosophy of jiu-jitsu: Jiu-jitsu has a philosophy that revolves around using an opponent’s strength against them in battle. This is in contrast to fighting styles that teach a more offensive strategy in combat. Jiu-jitsu also teaches the pillars of patience, efficiency, and control in the ring. (Source: Melbourne Jiu-Jitsu)
    The philosophy of judo: Even though judo is a fighting style that focuses on self-defense, it emphasizes non-harm and teaches fighters to take down their opponent without causing them permanent harm. It also places a strong emphasis on the welfare and betterment of society at large. (Source: Hanabi Judo)

If you want to pursue a martial art that is more focused on actual combat, jiu-jitsu is the fighting style to look at. If you’re looking for a martial art that you can incorporate into your life to be a more well-rounded and compassionate person, judo is probably the way to go for you.
Is Judo or Jiu-Jitsu Better for Self-Defense?

Deciding between judo or jiu-jitsu as the better self-defense fighting style is a tough call. Arguably, both of these styles are better options for self-defense over showier martial arts styles such as taekwondo, which focus more on form for competitive sparring.

In contrast, jiu-jitsu is designed to come out when street fighting turns dirty, and judo is practically designed to stop the fight before it even starts.

If you’re looking to pursue one martial art for self-defense, either judo or jiu-jitsu should work. However, jiu-jitsu is arguably a better fighting technique for fighting people on the ground, while judo is better for fighting people from a standing position.

At the end of the day, the more effective martial art is the one that is being wielded by a master practitioner. So whichever discipline you ultimately choose to go with, you should plan to achieve the highest mastery possible to have the best odds in a real fight.
Is Jiu-Jitsu More Effective Than Judo?

Enthusiasts for jiu-jitsu and judo will both tell you that their chosen fighting style is the most effective, but the reality is that it all depends on the person fighting. An advanced judo fighter can usually take down a novice jiu-jitsu student easily, and vice versa.

Jiu-jitsu is more effective than judo when it comes to defensive moves and preventing damage. While judo focuses more on getting your opponent to the ground, jiu-jitsu puts equal emphasis on preventing your opponent from hurting you in the process.

This means there are more counterstrikes and other defensive techniques in jiu-jitsu compared to judo. If your main goal in self-defense is to prevent yourself from getting hurt, this makes jiu-jitsu slightly more effective defense.

However, the emphasis on speed in judo makes a good argument for judo being more effective. By taking down your enemy as quickly as possible with a judo throw, you don’t leave them time to inflict any damage in the first place.
Judo vs. Jiu-Jitsu in Mixed Martial Arts

Both judo and jiu-jitsu are fighting styles that are incorporated into mixed martial arts (MMA). MMA uses a wide range of throws, strikes, kicks, and submission holds to beat your opponent in the ring.

Jiu-jitsu is undoubtedly more popular as a secondary fighting style in MMA, especially the Brazilian style of jiu-jitsu. Almost all MMA instructors have a repertoire of ground techniques that are derived from jiu-jitsu influences. MMA fighters who specialize in standing techniques and judo takedowns are few and far between.

However, judo is an underrated fighting style when used in an MMA context. The explosive throws that a judo master is capable of can stun an opponent in the ring long enough to finish them off with any number of ground techniques, which are taught in judo as well as jiu-jitsu.
Judo vs. Jiu-Jitsu in the Olympics

A major difference between judo and jiu-jitsu is that judo is a recognized Olympic sport and jiu-jitsu is not, despite the fact that jiu-jitsu is actually an older form of martial arts. Judo was introduced as a men’s sport in the Olympics in 1964. The women’s version of Olympic judo was added in 1992. (Source: Olympics)
Why Is Jiu-Jitsu Not in the Olympics?

The reasons why jiu-jitsu is not a part of the Olympics while judo is are complicated. These are just a few of them (Source: Gracie Raleigh):

    Lack of global popularity: While jiu-jitsu is the older of the two fighting styles, it doesn’t have as much appeal to popular culture as judo does, especially since judo has been an Olympic sport since the mid-20th century.
    Too similar to judo: Even though the philosophy and techniques in judo and jiu-jitsu are slightly different, in a competitive match they are considered too similar as a spectator sport to justify both fighting styles.
    No governing committee: A major roadblock to jiu-jitsu becoming a recognized Olympic sport is that there is no overarching global governing committee for the sport of jiu-jitsu. The original old-style Japanese jiu-jitsu was itself just a collection of different indigenous grappling techniques, and each Brazilian jiu-jitsu dojo is slightly different.

Even though jiu-jitsu isn’t an official Olympic sport, that doesn’t mean students who are interested in competition should only focus on judo. There are several national and international judo competitions that martial artists can participate in if they’re ambitious to climb the ranks.
How to Choose Between Judo and Jiu-Jitsu

If you are trying to choose between practicing judo and jiu-jitsu and you can only choose one, there are a few ways that you can help narrow down your search and make a final decision between the two disciplines. Here are a few tips for making your choice between judo and jiu-jitsu as your primary fighting style:

    Attend some classes. Hands-down the best way to decide whether you prefer judo or jiu-jitsu is to sit in on a few classes for each fighting style and see how you like the techniques that are being demonstrated. It’s also a good idea to attend multiple dojos per style if they’re available so you can see a range of different instructors for a good fit.
    Figure out why you’re taking martial arts. Are you interested in pursuing the top ranks in competitive sparring or do you just want a solid foundation for self-defense in case you ever get caught in a fight? Knowing how you intend to use your martial art is a good step toward figuring out the best school for your lifestyle.
    Read some online reviews. If you have a large number of dojos to choose from, be sure to check out any reviews online associated with the business. Take highly positive and negative reviews with a grain of salt, but multiple poor reviews complaining about the same issues can serve as a red flag to warn you away from bad dojos.
    Look at your budget. Between the two styles, judo tends to be slightly cheaper while teaching many of the same basic ground techniques as jiu-jitsu. This means that if you’re looking to get the most bang for your buck, judo is probably a better option for you. However, you can also get good discounts for either school if you search around a little.

Keep in mind that you’re hopefully going to sign up with a dojo that you’ll be attending for years, so you want to choose carefully. Don’t jump on the first instructor you like or the first dojo you see. Otherwise, you might suffer from buyer’s remorse later after the month-to-month contract is already signed.
Can You Learn Judo and Jiu-Jitsu at the Same Time?

If you still can’t choose between judo and jiu-jitsu, you might be wondering whether it’s possible to study both of these martial arts at once. It is possible, but with a few caveats. Here are some of the things you’ll need to consider if you’re thinking about studying judo and jiu-jitsu at once:

    See if you can study both styles at the same dojo. Joining up with an MMA dojo may give you access to instructors that are black belts in both judo and jiu-jitsu, so you don’t have to go back and forth between two different schools to get the moves you need.
    Let your instructor(s) know what’s up. If you’re taking judo and jiu-jitsu from two different instructors, you should let them know that you’re double-training in multiple fighting styles. This can allow your instructor to watch your form for bad habits that may become ingrained from stances in the other discipline.
    Make sure that your body can handle it. Judo and jiu-jitsu are very physically demanding sports, and training for both at the same time can leave you feeling exhausted and burnt out on martial arts altogether. Get plenty of sleep to keep yourself energized, watch your diet, and be sure to stretch well before and after each session.

Training in judo and jiu-jitsu at the same time can be challenging for both your body and your wallet. However, for dedicated MMA students, there’s no better way to gain mastery over your opponent on both the ground and in standing conflicts.

If you can’t afford to train in both styles at once or you simply don’t have the time and energy to achieve it, don’t forget that you can always study one martial art before taking on another. This will help you solidify your martial arts training and ensure that you’re proficient in your primary style before you try to incorporate techniques from another one.
Judo and Jiu-Jitsu Are Both Effective Styles

No matter which fighting style you ultimately decide to go with, a comparison between Judo and Jiu-jitsu shows that each of these fighting styles has a ton to offer prospective students.

Whether you want to start jiu-jitsu for self-defense or you want to get involved in serious judo competitions, you’ll know you’re learning skills you can apply in a real fight.


Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia

    Donate
    Create account
    Log in

Contents
(Top)
History and philosophy

Judo waza (techniques)

Pedagogy

Competitive judo

In mixed martial arts

Alternative styles and derivative martial arts

Safety

    Mental training
    Judoka (practitioner)
    Judogi (uniform)
    Organizations
    Rank and grading
    World Judo Day
    Filmography
    See also
    References
    Bibliography
    External links

Judo

    Article
    Talk

    Read
    Edit
    View history

Tools

Appearance
Text

    Small
    Standard
    Large

Width

    Standard
    Wide

Color (beta)

    Automatic
    Light
    Dark

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article is about the martial art and sport. For the computer programming environment, see JUDO (software).
Judo
Kyuzo Mifune (left) and Kanō Jigorō (right)
Focus	Grappling, wrestling, ground fighting
Hardness	Full contact
Country of origin	Japan
Creator	Kanō Jigorō
Famous practitioners	See: List of judoka
Parenthood	Various koryū Jujutsu schools, principally Tenjin Shin'yō-ryū, Kitō-ryū,
Ancestor arts	

    Tenjin Shin'yō-ryū
    Yoshin ryu
    Shiten ryu
    Sekiguchi Ryu
    Sosuishi Ryu
    Fusen Ryu
    Kito Ryu
    Takenouchi Ryu
    Miura Ryu
    Kyushin Ryu
    Ryōi Shintō-ryū
    Tsutsumi Hozan Ryu

Descendant arts	Kosen judo, Bartitsu, Yoseikan Budō, Brazilian jiu-jitsu, Sambo, ARB, CQC, Krav Maga, Kapap, Kūdō, MMA, modern Arnis, Luta Livre, shoot wrestling, submission grappling, Vale Tudo
Olympic sport	

    Accepted as an Olympic sport in 1960 (see below)
    Contested since 1964[1] (men) and 1992[2] (women)

Official website	

    International Judo Federation (IJF)
    The Kodokan

Judo
Takamasa Anai takes down his opponent during the Grand Slam Tokyo.
Highest governing body	International Judo Federation
Characteristics
Contact	Yes
Mixed-sex	No
Type	Martial art
Presence
Country or region	Worldwide
Olympic	Debuted in 1964

Judo (Japanese: 柔道, Hepburn: Jūdō, lit. 'gentle way') is an unarmed modern Japanese martial art, combat sport, Olympic sport (since 1964), and the most prominent form of jacket wrestling competed internationally.[3][4][5] Judo was created in 1882 by Kanō Jigorō (嘉納 治五郎) as an eclectic martial art, distinguishing itself from its predecessors (primarily Tenjin Shinyo-ryu jujutsu and Kitō-ryū jujutsu) due to an emphasis on "randori" (乱取り, lit. 'free sparring') instead of kata (形, kata, pre-arranged forms) alongside its removal of striking and weapon training elements.[3][4][6] Judo rose to prominence for its dominance over established jujutsu schools in tournaments hosted by the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department (警視庁武術大会, Keishicho Bujutsu Taikai), resulting in its adoption as the department's primary martial art.[4][3] A judo practitioner is called a "judoka" (柔道家, jūdōka), and the judo uniform is called "judogi" (柔道着, jūdōgi, lit. 'judo attire').

The objective of competitive judo is to throw an opponent, immobilize them with a pin, or force an opponent to submit with a joint lock or a choke. While strikes and use of weapons are included in some pre-arranged forms (kata), they are not frequently trained and are illegal in judo competition or free practice.[4] Judo's international governing body is the International Judo Federation, and competitors compete in the international IJF professional circuit.

Judo's philosophy revolves around two primary principles: "Seiryoku-Zenyo" (精力善用, lit. 'good use of energy') and "Jita-Kyoei" (自他共栄, lit. 'mutual welfare and benefit').[4][7][8][9][10] The philosophy and subsequent pedagogy developed for judo became the model for other modern Japanese martial arts that developed from Ko-ryū. Judo has also spawned a number of derivative martial arts around the world, such as Brazilian jiu-jitsu, Krav Maga, sambo, and ARB. Judo also influenced the formation of other combat styles such as close-quarters combat (CQC), mixed martial arts (MMA), shoot wrestling and submission wrestling.
History and philosophy
Early life of its founder
Jigoro Kano, founder of judo

The early history of judo is inseparable from its founder, Japanese polymath and educator Kanō Jigorō (嘉納 治五郎, Jigoro Kano, 1860–1938), born Shinnosuke Jigorō (新之助 治五郎, Jigorō Shinnosuke). Kano was born into a relatively affluent family. His father, Jirosaku, was the second son of the head priest of the Shinto Hiyoshi shrine in Shiga Prefecture. He married Sadako Kano, daughter of the owner of Kiku-Masamune sake brewing company and was adopted by the family, changing his name to Kano. He ultimately became an official in the Shogunate government.[11]

Jigoro Kano had an academic upbringing and, from the age of seven, he studied English, shodō (書道, Japanese calligraphy) and the Four Confucian Texts (四書, Shisho) under a number of tutors.[12] When he was fourteen, Kano began boarding at an English-medium school, Ikuei-Gijuku in Shiba, Tokyo. The culture of bullying endemic at this school was the catalyst that caused Kano to seek out a Jūjutsu (柔術, Jujutsu) dōjō (道場, dōjō, training place) at which to train.[12]

Early attempts to find a jujutsu teacher who was willing to take him on met with little success. Jujutsu had become unfashionable in an increasingly westernized Japan. Many of those who had once taught the art had been forced out of teaching or become so disillusioned with it that they had simply given up. Nakai Umenari, an acquaintance of Kanō's father and a former soldier, agreed to show him kata, but not to teach him. The caretaker of Jirosaku's second house, Katagiri Ryuji, also knew jujutsu, but would not teach it as he believed it was no longer of practical use. Another frequent visitor, Imai Genshiro of Kyushin-ryū school of jujutsu, also refused.[13] Several years passed before he finally found a willing teacher.[13]

In 1877, as a student at the University of Tokyo, Kano learned that many jujutsu teachers had been forced to pursue alternative careers, frequently opening Seikotsu-in (整骨院, traditional osteopathy practices).[14] After inquiring at a number of these, Kano was referred to Fukuda Hachinosuke (c. 1828–1880),[15] a teacher of the Tenjin Shin'yō-ryū of jujutsu, who had a small nine mat dōjō where he taught five students.[16] Fukuda is said to have emphasized technique over formal exercise, sowing the seeds of Kano's emphasis on randori (乱取り, randori, free practice) in judo.

On Fukuda's death in 1880, Kano, who had become his keenest and most able student in both randori and kata, was given the densho (伝書, scrolls) of the Fukuda dōjō.[17] Kano chose to continue his studies at another Tenjin Shin'yō-ryū school, that of Iso Masatomo (c. 1820–1881). Iso placed more emphasis on the practice of "kata", and entrusted randori instruction to assistants, increasingly to Kano.[18] Iso died in June 1881 and Kano went on to study at the dōjō of Iikubo Tsunetoshi (1835–1889) of Kitō-ryū (起倒流).[6] Like Fukuda, Iikubo placed much emphasis on randori, with Kitō-ryū having a greater focus on nage-waza (投げ技, throwing techniques).[19]
Founding of the Kodokan
Eisho-ji temple, Tokyo

In February 1882, Kano founded a school and dōjō at the Eisho-ji (永昌寺), a Buddhist temple in what was then the Shitaya ward of Tokyo (now the Higashi Ueno district of Taitō ward).[20] Iikubo, Kano's Kitō-ryū instructor, attended the dōjō three days a week to help teach and, although two years would pass before the temple would be called by the name Kōdōkan (講道館, Kodokan, "place for expounding the way"), and Kano had not yet received his Menkyo (免許, certificate of mastery) in Kitō-ryū, this is now regarded as the Kodokan founding.

The Eisho-ji dōjō was originally shoin. It was a relatively small affair, consisting of a 12 jo[21] (214 sq ft) training area. Kano took in resident and non-resident students, the first two being Tomita Tsunejirō and Shiro Saigo.[22] In August, the following year, the pair were granted shodan (初段, first rank) grades, the first that had been awarded in any martial art.[23]
Judo versus jujutsu
Main article: Kodokan–Totsuka rivalry

Central to Kano's vision for judo were the principles of seiryoku zen'yō (精力善用, maximum efficiency, minimum effort) and jita kyōei (自他共栄, mutual welfare and benefit). He illustrated the application of seiryoku zen'yō with the concept of jū yoku gō o seisu (柔能く剛を制す - 柔能剛制, softness controls hardness):
jūdō (柔道, "Judo"), written in kanji

    In short, resisting a more powerful opponent will result in your defeat, whilst adjusting to and evading your opponent's attack will cause him to lose his balance, his power will be reduced, and you will defeat him. This can apply whatever the relative values of power, thus making it possible for weaker opponents to beat significantly stronger ones. This is the theory of ju yoku go o seisu.[24]

Kano realised that seiryoku zen'yō, initially conceived as a jujutsu concept, had a wider philosophical application. Coupled with the Confucianist-influenced jita kyōei, the wider application shaped the development of judo from a bujutsu (武術, martial art) to a budō (武道, martial way). Kano rejected techniques that did not conform to these principles and emphasized the importance of efficiency in the execution of techniques. He was convinced that practice of jujutsu while conforming to these ideals was a route to self-improvement and the betterment of society in general.[25] He was, however, acutely conscious of the Japanese public's negative perception of jujutsu:

    At the time a few bujitsu (martial arts) experts still existed but bujitsu was almost abandoned by the nation at large. Even if I wanted to teach jujitsu most people had now stopped thinking about it. So I thought it better to teach under a different name principally because my objectives were much wider than jujitsu.[26]

Kano believed that "jūjutsu" was insufficient to describe his art: although jutsu (術) means "art" or "means", it implies a method consisting of a collection of physical techniques. Accordingly, he changed the second character to dō (道), meaning "way", "road" or "path", which implies a more philosophical context than jutsu and has a common origin with the Chinese concept of tao. Thus Kano renamed it Jūdō (柔道, judo).[27]
Judo waza (techniques)
See also: List of judo techniques and List of Kodokan judo techniques

There are three basic categories of waza (技, techniques) in judo: nage-waza (投げ技, throwing techniques), katame-waza (固技, grappling techniques) and atemi-waza (当て身技, striking techniques).[28] Judo is mostly known for nage-waza and katame-waza.[29]

Judo practitioners typically devote a portion of each practice session to ukemi (受け身, break-falls), in order that nage-waza can be practiced without significant risk of injury. Several distinct types of ukemi exist, including ushiro ukemi (後ろ受身, rear breakfalls); yoko ukemi (横受け身, side breakfalls); mae ukemi (前受け身, front breakfalls); and zenpo kaiten ukemi (前方回転受身, rolling breakfalls)[30]

The person who performs a Waza is known as tori (取り, literally "taker") and the person to whom it is performed is known as uke (受け, "receiver").[31]
Nage-waza (throwing techniques)

Nage-waza include all techniques in which tori attempts to throw or trip uke, usually with the aim of placing uke on their back. Each technique has three distinct stages:

    Kuzushi (崩し): the opponent becoming off balanced;[32]
    Tsukuri (作り): turning in and fitting into the throw;[33]
    Kake (掛け): execution and completion of the throw.[33]

Nage-waza are typically drilled by the use of uchi-komi (内込), repeated turning-in, taking the throw up to the point of kake.[34]

Traditionally, nage-waza are further categorised into tachi-waza (立ち技, standing techniques), throws that are performed with tori maintaining an upright position, and sutemi-waza (捨身技, sacrifice techniques), throws in which tori sacrifices his upright position in order to throw uke.[35]

Tachi-waza are further subdivided into te-waza (手技, hand techniques),[36] in which tori predominantly uses their arms to throw uke; koshi-waza (腰技, hip techniques)[37] throws that predominantly use a lifting motion from the hips; and ashi-waza (足技, foot and leg techniques),[38] throws in which tori predominantly utilises their legs.[35]
Harai goshi (払腰, sweeping hip), a koshi-waza
Nage-waza (投げ技)
throwing techniques 	Tachi-waza (立ち技)
standing techniques 	Te-waza (手技)
hand techniques
Koshi-waza (腰技)
hip techniques
Ashi-waza (足技)
foot and leg techniques
Sutemi-waza (捨身技)
sacrifice techniques 	Ma-sutemi-waza (真捨身技)
rear sacrifice techniques
Yoko-sutemi-waza (橫捨身技)
side sacrifice techniques
Katame-waza (grappling techniques)

Katame-waza is further categorised into osaekomi-waza (抑込技, holding techniques), in which tori traps and pins uke on their back on the floor; shime-waza (絞技, strangulation techniques), in which tori attempts to force a submission by choking or strangling uke; and kansetsu-waza (関節技, joint techniques), in which tori attempts to submit uke by painful manipulation of their joints.[39]

A related concept is that of ne-waza (寝技, prone techniques), in which waza are applied from a non-standing position.[40]

In competitive judo, Kansetsu-waza is currently limited to elbow joint manipulation.[41] Manipulation and locking of other joints can be found in various kata, such as Katame-no-kata and Kodokan goshin jutsu.[42]
Juji gatame (十字固, cross lock)(armbar), a kansetsu-waza
Katame-waza (固技)
grappling techniques 	Osaekomi-waza (抑込技)
holding or pinning techniques
Shime-waza (絞技)
strangulation techniques
Kansetsu-waza (関節技)
Joint techniques (locks)
Atemi-waza (striking techniques)

Atemi-waza are techniques in which tori disables uke with a strike to a vital point. Atemi-waza are not permitted outside of kata.[43]
Pedagogy
Children practicing judo in Tokyo
Randori (free practice)

Judo pedagogy emphasizes randori (乱取り, literally "taking chaos", but meaning "free practice"). This term covers a variety of forms of practice, and the intensity at which it is carried out varies depending on intent and the level of expertise of the participants. At one extreme, is a compliant style of randori, known as Yakusoku geiko (約束稽古, prearranged practice), in which neither participant offers resistance to their partner's attempts to throw. A related concept is that of Sute geiko (捨稽古, throw-away practice), in which an experienced judoka allows himself to be thrown by his less-experienced partner.[44] At the opposite extreme from yakusoku geiko is the hard style of randori that seeks to emulate the style of judo seen in competition. While hard randori is the cornerstone of judo, over-emphasis of the competitive aspect is seen as undesirable by traditionalists if the intent of the randori is to "win" rather than to learn.[45]
Kata (forms)
See also: Kata
Jigoro Kano and Yamashita Yoshitsugu performing Koshiki-no-kata

Kata (形, kata, forms) are pre-arranged patterns of techniques and in judo, with the exception of elements of the Seiryoku-Zen'yō Kokumin-Taiiku, they are all practised with a partner. Their purposes include illustrating the basic principles of judo, demonstrating the correct execution of a technique, teaching the philosophical tenets upon which judo is based, allowing for the practice of techniques that are not allowed in randori, and to preserve ancient techniques that are historically important but are no longer used in contemporary judo.[46]

There are ten kata that are recognized by the Kodokan today:[47]

    Randori-no-kata (乱取りの形, Free practice forms), comprising two kata:
        Nage-no-kata (投の形, Forms of throwing) Fifteen throws, practiced both left- and right-handed, three each from the five categories of nage waza: te waza, koshi waza, ashi waza, ma sutemi waza and yoko sutemi waza.[48]
        Katame-no-kata (固の形, Forms of grappling or holding). Fifteen techniques in three sets of five, illustrating the three categories of katame waza: osaekomi waza, shime waza and kansetsu waza.[49]
    Kime-no-kata (極の形, Forms of decisiveness). Twenty techniques, illustrating the principles of defence in a combat situation, performed from kneeling and standing positions. Attacks are made unarmed and armed with a dagger and a sword. This kata utilises atemi waza, striking techniques, that are forbidden in randori.[50]
    Kōdōkan goshinjutsu (講道館護身術, Kodokan skills of self-defence). The most recent recognised kata, comprising twenty-one techniques of defence against attack from an unarmed assailant and one armed with a knife, stick and pistol. This kata incorporates various jujutsu techniques such as wrist locks and atemi waza.[51]
    Jū-no-kata (柔の形, Forms of gentleness & flexibility). Fifteen techniques, arranged in three sets of five, demonstrating the principle of Jū and its correct use in offence and defence.[52]
    Gō-no-kata (剛の形, Forms of force). One of the oldest kata, comprising ten forms that illustrate the efficient use of force and resistance. Now rarely practiced.[53]
    Itsutsu-no-kata (五の形, The five forms). An advanced kata, illustrating the principle of seiryoku zen'yō and the movements of the universe.[54] The kata predates the creation of Kodokan and originated in Tenjin Shinyō-ryū.[55]
    Koshiki-no-kata (古式の形, Traditional forms). Derived from Kitō-ryū Jujutsu, this kata was originally intended to be performed wearing armour. Kano chose to preserve it as it embodied the principles of judo.[56]
    Seiryoku Zen'yō Kokumin Taiiku (精力善用国家体育, Maximum-efficiency national physical education). A series of exercises designed to develop the physique for judo.[57]
    Joshi-goshinhō (女子護身法, Methods of self-defence for women). An exercise completed in 1943, and of which the development was ordered by Jirō Nangō, the second Kodokan president.[58]

In addition, there are a number of commonly practiced kata that are not recognised by the Kodokan. Some of the more common kata include:

    Go-no-sen-no-kata (後の先の形) A "kata" of pre-emptive counter techniques that some claim has a heritage from Waseda University in Tokyo. The form is little more than standard counters, bookended by some protocol. Moreover, there is no universal standard nor accepted reference text. The exercise is unknown of in Japan, and was popularised in the West by Mikinosuke Kawaishi.[59]
    Nage-waza-ura-no-kata (投げ技裏の形) A much more elegant and coherent kata of counter techniques, created by Kyuzo Mifune.[60]
    Katame-waza ura-no-kata (固め技裏の形, Forms of reversing controlling techniques) a kata of counter-attacks to controlling techniques, attributed to Kazuo Itō [Fr][61][62]

Tandoku-renshu (practice by oneself)

    Personal work.[63]

Competitive judo
History
Japanese judoka Takamasa Anai Vs French judoka Thierry Fabre during the 2010 World Judo Championships held in Tokyo
Yoshihiko Yoshimatsu attempting to throw Toshiro Daigo with an uchi mata in the final of the 1951 All-Japan Judo Championships

Contest (試合, shiai) is a vitally important aspect of judo. In 1899, Kano was asked to chair a committee of the Dai Nippon Butoku Kai to draw up the first formal set of contest rules for jujutsu. These rules were intended to cover contests between different various traditional schools of jujutsu as well as practitioners of Kodokan judo. Contests were 15 minutes long and were judged on the basis of nage waza and katame waza, excluding atemi waza. Wins were by two ippons, awarded in every four-main different path of winning alternatives, by "Throwing", where the opponent's back strikes flat onto the mat with sufficient force, by "Pinning" them on their back for a "sufficient" amount of time, or by "Submission", which could be achieved via Shime-waza or Kansetsu-waza, in which the opponent was forced to give himself or herself up or summon a referee's or corner-judge's stoppage. Finger, toe and ankle locks were prohibited.[64] In 1900, these rules were adopted by the Kodokan with amendments made to prohibit all joint locks for kyu grades and added wrist locks to the prohibited kansetsu-waza for dan grades. It was also stated that the ratio of tachi-waza to ne-waza should be between 70% and 80% for kyu grades and between 60% and 70% for dan grades.[64]

In 1916, additional rulings were brought in to further limit kansetsu waza with the prohibition of ashi garami and neck locks, as well as do jime.[65] These were further added to in 1925.

Jigoro Kano for a long time wished to see judo as an Olympic discipline.[66] The first time judo was seen in the Olympic Games was in an informal demonstration hosted by Kano at the 1932 Games.[67] However, Kano was ambivalent about judo's potential inclusion as an Olympic sport:

    I have been asked by people of various sections as to the wisdom and possibility of judo being introduced with other games and sports at the Olympic Games. My view on the matter, at present, is rather passive. If it be the desire of other member countries, I have no objection. But I do not feel inclined to take any initiative. For one thing, judo in reality is not a mere sport or game. I regard it as a principle of life, art and science. In fact, it is a means for personal cultural attainment. Only one of the forms of judo training, so-called randori or free practice can be classed as a form of sport. Certainly, to some extent, the same may be said of boxing and fencing, but today they are practiced and conducted as sports. Then the Olympic Games are so strongly flavored with nationalism that it is possible to be influenced by it and to develop "Contest Judo", a retrograde form as ju-jitsu was before the Kodokan was founded. Judo should be free as art and science from any external influences, political, national, racial, and financial or any other organized interest. And all things connected with it should be directed to its ultimate object, the "Benefit of Humanity". Human sacrifice is a matter of ancient history.[68]

Use of judo at the Summer Olympic Games
See also: Judo at the Summer Olympics
Judo (1935)
Olympic Judo pictogram

At the 57th general session of the International Olympic Committee, held in Rome on 22 August 1960, the IOC members formally decided to include Judo among the events to be contested at the Olympic Games. The proposal, which was placed before the session by the Japanese delegation, was welcomed by all participants. The few who opposed had nothing against Judo itself but against increasing the number of Olympic events as a whole. There were only two dissenting votes in the final poll. For the first time in history a traditional Japanese sport has been included in the Olympic competition.[69]

Finally, judo was first contested as an Olympic sport for men in the 1964 Games in Tokyo. The Olympic Committee initially dropped judo for the 1968 Olympics, meeting protests.[70] Dutchman Anton Geesink won the first Olympic gold medal in the open division of judo by defeating Akio Kaminaga of Japan. The women's event was introduced at the Olympics in 1988 as a demonstration event, and an official medal event in 1992.
Use of judo at the Summer Paralympic Games
See also: Judo at the Summer Paralympics

Judo was introduced as a Paralympic sport at the 1988 Summer Paralympics in Seoul, with women's events contested for the first time at 2004 Summer Paralympics.
Use of judo at the Commonwealth Games
See also: Judo at the Commonwealth Games

Judo was an optional sport included in the three editions of the Commonwealth Games: 1990 Commonwealth Games in Auckland, 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester and 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. From 2022, judo will become a core sport in the 22nd edition of the Commonwealth Games, in Birmingham and also the 23rd edition of the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.
Current international contest rules
All-Japan Judo Championships, 2007 men's final
Main article: Judo rules

Penalties may be given for: passivity or preventing progress in the match; for safety infringements (for example by using prohibited techniques), or for behavior that is deemed to be against the spirit of judo. Fighting must be stopped if a participant is outside the designated area on the mat.[71]
Weight divisions

There are currently seven weight divisions, subject to change by governing bodies, and may be modified based on the age of the competitors:
Weight divisions 	Extra Lightweight 	Half Lightweight 	Lightweight 	Half Middleweight 	Middleweight 	Half Heavyweight 	Heavyweight
Men 	Under 60 kg
(130 lb; 9.4 st) 	60–66 kg
(132–146 lb; 9.4–10.4 st) 	66–73 kg
(146–161 lb; 10.4–11.5 st) 	73–81 kg
(161–179 lb; 11.5–12.8 st) 	81–90 kg
(179–198 lb; 12.8–14.2 st) 	90–100 kg
(200–220 lb; 14–16 st) 	Over 100 kg
(220 lb; 16 st)
Women 	Under 48 kg
(106 lb; 7.6 st) 	48–52 kg
(106–115 lb; 7.6–8.2 st) 	52–57 kg
(115–126 lb; 8.2–9.0 st) 	57–63 kg
(126–139 lb; 9.0–9.9 st) 	63–70 kg
(139–154 lb; 9.9–11.0 st) 	70–78 kg
(154–172 lb; 11.0–12.3 st) 	Over 78 kg
(172 lb; 12.3 st)
Throw during competition, leads to an ippon
Competition scoring

A throw that places the opponent on their back with impetus and control scores an ippon (一本), winning the contest.[72] A lesser throw, where the opponent is thrown onto his back, but with insufficient force to merit an ippon, scores a waza-ari (技あり).[72] Two scores of waza-ari equal an ippon waza-ari awasete ippon (技あり合わせて一本,  ). This rule was cancelled in 2017, but it was resumed in 2018. Formerly, a throw that places the opponent onto his side scores a yuko (有効).[72]

In 2017, the International Judo Federation announced changes in evaluation of points. There will only be ippon and waza-ari scores given during a match with yuko scores now included within waza-ari.[73]

Ippon is scored in ne-waza for pinning an opponent on his back with a recognised osaekomi-waza for 20 seconds or by forcing a submission through shime-waza or kansetsu-waza.[72] A submission is signalled by tapping the mat or the opponent at least twice with the hand or foot, or by saying maitta (まいった, I surrender).[72] A pin lasting for less than 20 seconds, but more than 10 seconds scores waza-ari (formerly waza-ari was awarded for holds of longer than 15 seconds and yuko for holds of longer than 10 seconds).[72]

Formerly, there was an additional score that was lesser to yuko, that of Koka (効果).[72] This has since been removed.[74][75]

If the scores are identical at the end of the match, the contest is resolved by the Golden Score rule. Golden Score is a sudden death situation where the clock is reset to match-time, and the first contestant to achieve any score wins. If there is no score during this period, then the winner is decided by Hantei (判定), the majority opinion of the referee and the two corner judges.[76]

There have been changes to the scoring. In January 2013, the Hantei was removed and the "Golden Score" no longer has a time limit. The match would continue until a judoka scored through a technique or if the opponent is penalised (Hansoku-make).
Penalties

Two types of penalties may be awarded. A shido (指導 – literally "guidance") is awarded for minor rule infringements. A shido can also be awarded for a prolonged period of non-aggression. Recent rule changes allow for the first shidos to result in only warnings. If there is a tie, then and only then, will the number of shidos (if less than three) be used to determine the winner. After three shidos are given, the victory is given to the opponent, constituting an indirect hansoku-make (反則負け – literally "foul-play defeat"), but does not result in expulsion from the tournament. Note: Prior to 2017, the 4th shido was hansoku-make. If hansoku-make is awarded for a major rule infringement, it results not just in loss of the match, but in the expulsion from the tournament of the penalized player.
In mixed martial arts
Main article: Mixed martial arts

A number of judo practitioners have made an impact in mixed martial arts.[77][78][79] Notable judo-trained MMA fighters include Olympic medalists Hidehiko Yoshida (Gold, 1992), Naoya Ogawa (Silver, 1992), Paweł Nastula (Gold, 1996), Makoto Takimoto (Gold, 2000), Satoshi Ishii (Gold, 2008), Ronda Rousey (Bronze, 2008), and Kayla Harrison (Gold, 2012 and 2016), former Russian national judo championship bronze medalist Fedor Emelianenko, Yoshihiro Akiyama, Don Frye, Rick Hawn, Daniel Kelly, Hector Lombard, Karo Parisyan, Ayaka Hamasaki, Antônio Silva, Oleg Taktarov, Rhadi Ferguson, Dong-Sik Yoon, and Khabib Nurmagomedov.[80][81]
Alternative styles and derivative martial arts
International judo camp in Artjärvi, Orimattila, Finland

Kano Jigoro's Kodokan judo is the most popular and well-known style of judo, but is not the only one. The terms judo and jujutsu were quite interchangeable in the early years, so some of these forms of judo are still known as jujutsu or jiu-jitsu either for that reason, or simply to differentiate them from mainstream judo. From Kano's original style of judo, several related forms have evolved—some now widely considered to be
Kosen judo

Commonly described as a separate style of Judo, Kosen judo is a competition rules set of Kodokan judo that was popularized in the early 20th century for use in Japanese Special High Schools Championships held at Kyoto Imperial University.[82] The word "Kosen" is an acronym of Koto Senmon Gakko (高等専門学校, literally "Higher Professional School"). Currently, competitions are organized between Japan's seven former Imperial Universities and referred to as Nanatei Judo (ja:七帝柔道, literally "Seven Emperors Judo"). Kosen judo's focus on newaza has drawn comparisons with Brazilian jiu-jitsu.
Freestyle Judo

Freestyle Judo is a form of competitive judo practiced primarily in the United States that retains techniques that have been removed from mainstream IJF rules.[83] Freestyle Judo is currently backed by the International Freestyle Judo Alliance (IFJA). The Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) officially sanctions Freestyle Judo in the United States of America.[84]
Georgian Judo

Georgian Judo is influenced by Chidaoba (Georgian cultural jacket wrestling). Chidaoba's major influence on the Georgian style of judo is in its unorthodox grips as well as its throws and takedowns. Georgian Judo is also known for its countering techniques through the use of power moves such as bear hugs and double underhooks into throws and takedowns.[85][86] It is represented by various olympic winners and World Champions, such as Lasha Bekauri, Lukhumi Chkhvimiani, Shota Chochishvili, Tato Grigalashvili, Zaza Kedelashvili, David Khakhaleishvili, Luka Maisuradze,Lasha Shavdatuashvili and others.
Russian Judo

This distinctive style of judo was influenced by the Soviet martial art of Sambo. It is represented by well-known coaches such as Alexander Retuinskih and Igor Yakimov, and mixed martial arts fighters such as Fedor Emelianenko, Oleg Taktarov, Khabib Nurmagomedov, and Karo Parisyan. In turn, Russian judo has influenced mainstream judo, with techniques such as the flying armbar being accepted into Kodokan judo.[87][88]
Mongolian Judo

Unlike other Far East styles of Judo, Mongolian Judo focuses much more on power rather than technique. The influence of Bokh on Mongolian Judo can be seen in its grips and body positioning. Judo grips such as the over under, double underhooks and the heavy use of grips on the belt.[89][90] It is represented by various world champions, such as Khaliuny Boldbaatar, Tsendiin Damdin, Boldyn Gankhaich, Naidangiin Tüvshinbayar, Mönkhbatyn Urantsetseg, Ganbatyn Boldbaatar.
Korean Judo

Korean Judo is also very technical but what really separates it from other styles is the speed at which its techniques are performed. Korean Judo it is not powerful in terms of using strength but instead, the practitioners use speed, movement and technique in order to create fast and powerful snaps. This styles produced various olympic champions, like Ahn Byeong-keun, Cho Min-sun, Choi Min-ho, Ha Hyung-joo, Jeon Ki-young, Kim Jae-bum, Kim Jae-yup, Lee Kyung-keun, Lee Won-hee, Song Dae-nam and others.[91][92]
French Judo

French Judo is based on tactical Kumi Kata and focuses on breaking the posture of the opponent as well as preventing opponents from attaining a proper grip. This style does not use a huge amount of power, it prefer to use technique, tactics and timing.[93][94] Many French judo practitioners have become World and Olympic champions, like Clarisse Agbegnenou, Émilie Andéol, Marc Alexandre, Djamel Bouras, Amandine Buchard, Guillaume Chaine, Axel Clerget, Sarah-Léonie Cysique, Lucie Décosse, Romane Dicko, David Douillet, Catherine Fleury-Vachon, Alexandre Iddir and many others.
Cuban Judo

Cuban Judo is characterized by an explosive and high athletic style that puts an emphasis on body conditioning and calculated planning mixed with raw power. In terms of training the athletes use a particularly methodical and intellectual approach to the sport.[95][96]
Azerbaijani Judo

Judo in Azerbaijan has developed over the years and has become deep rooted and considered a top sport in the country. It's very similar to Georgian Judo, as its mostly focused on the practitioner's strength during throws. It's a hybrid of the original Kodokan Judo and the traditional Azerbaijan style of wrestling called Azeri, whose techniques consist of unorthodox grips and positioning during counter-attacks.[97][98]
Israeli Judo

Judo has become a top sport in Israel only recently. Israeli Judo is characterized by a particular emphasis on hip throws, which are executed with a mix of technique and aggression, with the practitioner that has to adjust his sleeves before powerfully gripping and throwing the opponent away.[99][100]
Sambo

Sambo is influenced by judo combined with wrestling techniques, and striking in case of combat sambo. Vasili Oshchepkov was one of the first European judo black belts under Kano. Oshchepkov went on to contribute his knowledge of judo as one of the three founders of Sambo, which also integrated various international and Soviet bloc wrestling styles and other combative techniques. Oshchepkov was executed during the political purges of 1937 and judo was banned for decades until its inclusion in the 1964 Olympics, where sambists won 4 bronze medals.[101] In their History of Sambo, Brett Jacques and Scott Anderson wrote that in Russia "judo and SOMBO were considered to be the same thing"—albeit with a different uniform and some differences in the rules.[102]
Brazilian jiu-jitsu

An adoption of Kano jiu jitsu (a common name for judo at the time) in Brazil attributed to Mitsuyo Maeda's students,[103] most notably the Gracie family.[104][105] 10th Planet Jiu Jitsu and other wrestling-influenced systems without the gi have also become popular.[106]
Other styles

Judo also influenced other combat styles such as close-quarters combat (CQC), mixed martial arts (MMA), shoot wrestling and submission wrestling.
Safety

Kano's vision for judo was one of a martial way that could be practiced realistically. Randori (free practice) was a central part of judo pedagogy and shiai (competition) a crucial test of a judoka's understanding of judo.[107] Safety necessitated some basic innovations that shaped judo's development. Atemi waza (striking techniques) were entirely limited to kata (prearranged forms) early in judo's history. Kansetsu waza (joint manipulation techniques) were limited to techniques that focused on the elbow joint. Various throwing techniques that were judged to be too dangerous to practice safely at full force, such as all joint-locking throws from Jujutsu, were also prohibited in shiai. To maximise safety in nage waza (throwing techniques), judoka trained in ukemi (break falls) and practiced on tatami (rice straw mats).[citation needed]
Kansetsu and shime waza

The application of joint manipulation and strangulation/choking techniques is generally safe under controlled conditions typical of judo dōjō and in competition. It is usual for there to be age restrictions on the practice and application of these types of techniques, but the exact nature of these restrictions will vary from country to country and from organization to organization.
Nage waza

Safety in the practice of throwing techniques depends on the skill level of both tori and uke. Inexpertly applied throws have the potential to injure both tori and uke, for instance when tori compensates for poor technique by powering through the throw. Similarly, poor ukemi can result in injury, particularly from more powerful throws that uke lacks the skill to breakfall from. For these reasons, throws are normally taught in order of difficulty for both tori and uke. This is exemplified in the Gokyo (五教, literally "five teachings"), a traditional grouping of throws arranged in order of difficulty of ukemi. Those grouped in Dai ikkyo (第一教, literally "first teaching") are relatively simple to breakfall from whereas those grouped in dai gokyo (第五教, literally "fifth teaching") are difficult to breakfall from.[citation needed]
Mental training

Mental training is an emerging modality of training in judo that aims to improve the performance of high-performance athletes in training and competition and also to promote health and well-being in the daily life of athletes and their entourage through the learning and application of psychological skills. The first publication of a judo-specific practical mental training approach based on sports training principles was in 2005 with the work of Boris Blumenstein, Ronnie Lidor and Gershon Tenenbaum.[108] In 2022, Caio Gabriel published the first article on mental training that appeared in the scientific journal of the International Judo Federation, "The Arts and Sciences of Judo".[109]
Judoka (practitioner)
Two judoka wearing judogi

A practitioner of judo is known as a judoka (柔道家). The modern meaning of "judoka" in English is a judo practitioner of any level of expertise,[110] but traditionally those below the rank of 4th dan were called kenkyu-sei (研究生, trainees); and only those of 4th dan or higher were called judoka. (The suffix -ka (家), when added to a noun, means a person with expertise or special knowledge on that subject).

A judo teacher is called sensei (先生).[110] Traditionally, that title was reserved for instructors of 4th dan and above.[111]
Judogi (uniform)
Main article: Judogi
The judogi is made from a heavy weave to withstand the stress of throwing and grappling.

Judo practitioners traditionally wear white uniforms called keikogi (稽古着, keikogi, practice clothing) or jūdōgi (柔道着, judogi, judo clothing)[112] sometimes abbreviated in the west as "gi". It comprises a heavy cotton kimono-like jacket called an uwagi (上衣, jacket), similar to traditional hanten (半纏, workers' jackets) fastened by an obi (帯, obi, belt), coloured to indicate rank, and cotton draw-string zubon (ズボン, trousers).[113] Early examples of keikogi had short sleeves and trouser legs and the modern long-sleeved judogi was adopted in 1906.[114]

The modern use of the blue judogi for high level competition was first suggested by Anton Geesink at the 1986 Maastricht IJF DC Meeting.[115] For competition, a blue judogi is worn by one of the two competitors for ease of distinction by judges, referees, and spectators. In Japan, both judoka use a white judogi and the traditional red obi (based on the colors of the Japanese flag) is affixed to the belt of one competitor. Outside Japan, a colored obi may also be used for convenience in minor competitions, the blue judogi only being mandatory at the regional or higher levels, depending on organization. Japanese practitioners and traditionalists tend to look down on the use of blue because judo is considered a pure sport, and replacing the pure white judogi with the impure blue is an offense.[115]

For events organized under the auspices of the International judo Federation (IJF), judogi have to bear the IJF Official Logo Mark Label. This label demonstrates that the judogi has passed a number of quality control tests to ensure it conforms to construction regulations ensuring it is not too stiff, flexible, rigid or slippery to allow the opponent to grip or to perform techniques.[116]
Organizations
Main article: List of judo organizations

The international governing body for judo is the International Judo Federation (IJF), founded in 1951. Members of the IJF include the African Judo Union (AJU), the Pan-American Judo Confederation (PJC), the Judo Union of Asia (JUA), the European Judo Union (EJU) and the Oceania Judo Union (OJU), each comprising a number of national judo associations. The IJF is responsible for organising international competition and hosts the World Judo Championships and is involved in running the Olympic Judo events.[117]
Rank and grading
Main article: Rank in Judo
Two children training in judo techniques

Judo is a hierarchical art, where seniority of judoka is designated by what is known as the kyū (級, kyū) -dan (段, dan) ranking system. This system was developed by Jigoro Kano and was based on the ranking system in the board game Go.[118]

Beginning students progress through kyu grades towards dan grades.

A judoka's position within the kyu-dan ranking system is displayed by the color of their belt. Beginning students typically wear a white belt, progressing through descending kyu ranks until they are deemed to have achieved a level of competence sufficient to be a dan grade, at which point they wear the kuro obi (黒帯, black belt). The kyu-dan ranking system has since been widely adopted by modern martial arts.[119]

The highest black belt ranks have no formal requirements and are decided by the president of the Kodokan. Kano Jigoro's grandson Kano Yukimitsu served as the fourth president from 1980 until 2009. As an educator by profession, Kanō believed that there should be no end to an individual's learning, and therefore no limit to the number of dan ranks. As of 2011, fifteen Japanese men have been promoted to jūdan (十段, 10th dan) by the Kodokan;[119] the IJF and Western and Asian national federations have promoted another eleven who are not recognized at that level of rank by the Kodokan. On 28 July 2011, the promotion board of USA Judo awarded Keiko Fukuda the rank of 10th dan, who was the first woman to be promoted to judo's highest level, albeit not a Kodokan-recognized rank.

Although dan ranks tend to be consistent between national organizations there is more variation in the kyū grades, with some countries having more kyū grades. Although initially kyū grade belt colours were uniformly white, today a variety of colours are used. The first black belts to denote a dan rank in the 1880s, initially the wide obi was used; as practitioners trained in kimono, only white and black obi were used. It was not until the early 1900s, after the introduction of the judogi, that an expanded colored belt system of awarding rank was created.[119] Written accounts from the archives of London's Budokwai judo club, founded in 1918, record the use of coloured judo belts at the 1926 9th annual Budokwai Display, and a list of ranked colored judokas appears in the Budokwai Committee Minutes of June 1927. Kawaishi visited London and the Budokwai in 1928, and was probably inspired to bring the coloured belt system to France.[120]
World Judo Day

On October 28 of every year, the judo community celebrates the World Judo Day in the honor of the birth of Judo's founder, Jigoro Kano. The theme of the World Judo Day changes from year to year, but the goal is always to highlight the moral values of Judo. The first celebration was held in 2011.[121] Past themes for the celebration have included:

    Bring a Friend (2023)[122]
    Inclusion (2022)[123]
    Solidarity (2021)[124]
    Stronger Together (2020)[125]
    Plant a Tree (2019)[126]
    Friendship (2018)[127]
    Courage (2017)[128]

Filmography

    Akira Kurosawa, Sanshiro Sugata (姿三四郎, Sugata Sanshirō, a.k.a. Judo Saga), 1943.
    Akira Kurosawa, Sanshiro Sugata Part II (續姿三四郎, Zoku Sugata Sanshirō, a.k.a. Judo Saga II), 1945.
    Johnnie To, Throw Down (柔道龍虎榜, Yau doh lung fu bong), 2004.

See also

    flagJapan portaliconSociety portalMartial arts portal

    Judo by country
    List of celebrity judoka
    List of judo techniques, partial list of judo techniques
    List of judoka
    List of World Champions in Judo
    Jacket wrestling

References

Inman (2005) p. 10
The first Olympic competition to award medals to women judoka was in 1992; in 1988, women competed as a demonstration sport. Inman (2005) p. 11
"Britannica, "Judo"". March 2024.
『日本大百科全書』電子版【柔道】(CD-ROM version of Encyclopedia Nipponica, "Judo").
『日本大百科全書』の最初の定義文（Encyclopedia Nipponica, first phrases, definition of Judo.）「心身を鍛錬することにより、その力をもっとも有効に使用する道であると同時に、人間形成の道である。」
Kano (2008), p. 11
"Kodokan Judo Institute, "What is Seiryoku-Zenyo?"". 5 March 2024.
"Teaching of Kanō Jigorō Shihan" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on October 30, 2021.
"精力善用、自他共栄を英語で学ぶ". 8 January 2016.
"Kodokan Judo Institute, "What is Jita-kyoei?"". Archived from the original on 2024-02-18. Retrieved 2021-10-30.
Kano (2008) pp. 46–47
Kano (2008) p. 1; Hoare (2009) p. 43
Kano (2008) p. 2
Hoare (2009) p. 44
Fukuda (2004) p. 145
Kano (2008) pp. 3–4; Hoare (2009) pp. 45–47; Fukuda (2004) pp. 145–152. Keiko Fukuda 9th Dan (born 1913) is the granddaughter of Fukuda Hachinosuke, and is the last surviving direct student of Kano: Davis, Simon. "Be Strong, Be Gentle, Be Beautiful - Keiko Fukuda". United States Judo Federation. Archived from the original on March 8, 2011. Retrieved March 12, 2011.
Kano (2008) p. 6; Hoare (2009) p. 47
Kano (2008), pp. 9–10
Kano (2005), p. 23
Hoare (2009) pp. 52–53. For location of Eisho-ji temple, see:
"Way to Eisho-Ji Temple", Kodokan, archived from the original on March 11, 2011, retrieved March 14, 2011
Jo is the Japanese unit of area.
Kano (2008) p. 20
Lowry (2006) p. 49
Kano (2005) pp. 39–40
For Kano's opinions on the wider applicability of jita kyōei to life see for example, Kano (2008) p. 107
Hoare (2009) p. 56
"Judo" had been used before then, as in the case of a jujutsu school that called itself Chokushin-ryū Jūdō (直信流柔道, Sometimes rendered as Jikishin-ryū Jūdō), but its use was rare.
Daigo (2005) p. 8
Numerous texts exist that describe the waza of judo in detail. Daigo (2005); Inokuma and Sato (1987); Kano (1994); Mifune (2004); and Ohlenkamp (2006) are some of the better examples
Kano (1994) pp. 45–54
Ishikawa and Draeger (1999) p. 179
Kano (1994) pp. 42–43; Mifune (2004) pp. 41–43
Kano (1994) p. 44; Mifune (2004) p. 44
Takahashi (2005) pp. 39–43
Daigo (2005) p. 10
"All Judo Hand Techniques (Te-Waza)".
"All Judo Hip Techniques (Koshi-Waza)".
"All Judo Foot Techniques (Ashi-Waza)".
For full coverage of katame waza techniques extant in current judo competition rules, see Adams (1991), Kashiwazaki (1992) and Kashiwazaki (1997)
Koizumi, Gunji. "Ne-waza (Groundwork) and Atemi-waza (blows) in Judo". Judo. Budokwai Judo Quarterly Bulletin. Retrieved 11 September 2012.
Adams (1991)
Otaki & Draeger (1983) pp. 398–405; Kano (1982) pp. 192–203
Daigo (2005) p. 9; Harrison (1952) pp. 162–168
Ishikawa and Draeger (1999) p. 84
Kano (1994) p. 142; Ishikawa and Draeger (1999) p. 84
"What is a Kata?". umich.edu. Archived from the original on February 19, 2015. Retrieved March 5, 2015.
For a review of the ten official Kodokan kata, see Jones and Hanon (2010)
Kano (1994) pp. 148–159; Otaki and Draeger, pp. 73–109, 139–266
Kano (1994) pp. 160–172; Otaki and Draeger, pp. 110–138, 267–405
Kano (1994) pp. 173–191
Kano (1994) pp. 192–203
Kano (1994) pp. 204–219; Fukuda (2004) pp. 1–144
De Crée and Jones (2009a, 2009b, 2009c)
Kano (1994) pp. 220–223
De Crée (2012) pp. 56–107
Kano (1994) pp. 224–238
Kano (1994) pp. 239–251
De Crée and Jones (2011a, 2011b, 2011c)
Fromm and Soames (1982) pp. 71–72, 109
Mifune (2004) pp. 211–220
De Crée (2015) pp. 155–174
Itō (1970) pp. 1–111
Cf. Jigoro Kano, Kodokan Judo, Kodansha, US, 2013, § Tandoku-renshu.
Hoare (2005) pp. 4–7
Hoare (2009) p. 109
Niehaus, Andreas. 'If You Want to Cry, Cry on the Green Mats of Kôdôkan' in Olympism: The Global Vision, 2013, p. 102.
Jigoro Kano. "The Contribution of Judo to Education by Jigoro Kano". Judo Info. Retrieved February 21, 2016.
Koizumi (1947)
Judo is Now Olympic Event, New Japan, vol. 13, pp. 118–119.
Black Belt Vol. 2, No. 2. Active Interest Media, Inc. Mar 1964. p. 27.
"Judo Rules: Basic Rules of Judo". rulesofsport.com.
Takahashi (2005) pp. 18–20
"Wide consensus for the adapted rules of the next Olympic Cycle". IJF.org. December 9, 2016. Retrieved June 2, 2017.
"Refereeing Rules Alterations: Test Event on WC Junior Bangkok'08" (PDF). Judo Info. INT. Judo Federation : IJF Referee Commission. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 3, 2016. Retrieved February 21, 2016.
Ohlenkamp, Neil. "Evolution of Judo Contest Rules". Judo Info. Retrieved February 21, 2016.
"Extended match (e.g. Golden Score Contest)". Judo Channel. Retrieved February 21, 2016.
Grant, T.P. (July 15, 2013). "MMA Fan's Guide to Grappling: Judo". Bloody Elbow. Archived from the original on June 5, 2017. Retrieved February 22, 2016.
Fusco, Anthony (August 20, 2012). "Judo "The Gentle Way": Why Judo Is so Underrated in MMA Today". Bleacher Report. Retrieved February 21, 2016.
Snowden, Jonathan (April 6, 2012). "The Gentle Way: Strikeforce Champion Ronda Rousey and the Birth of a Judo Star". Bleacher Report. Retrieved February 21, 2016.
Snowden, Jonathan (April 11, 2012). "The Gentle Way Part II: Olympians Ronda Rousey and Rick Hawn Adapt to MMA". Bleacher Report. Retrieved February 21, 2016.
Erickson, Matt (2 July 2014). "Is Ronda Rousey the savior judo has been waiting for?". MMAjunkie.com. Retrieved February 22, 2016.
Kashiwazaki (1997) pp. 14–15
"Judo handbook (PDF)" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on February 5, 2016.
Official website
"The development of Georgian Judo".
"Judo Grand Slam Returns". 24 March 2023.
"The Russian Judo Revolution". 2 August 2012.
"Judo:Its history in the world and Russia".
"Mongolian Judo". 19 June 2023. Archived from the original on 27 February 2024. Retrieved 10 January 2024.
"The secret of Mongolian Judo".
"What is Korean Judo".
"The Development of Korean Judo" (PDF).
"France Loves Judo". 3 August 2021.
"Judo For The World".
"Cuban Judo History".
"The Origin Of Judo In Cuba". 25 January 2022.
"Aizerbaijan". 12 January 2024.
"Judo styles".
"Israeli Judo Legends".
Ben-Tal, Daniel (17 August 2016). "Israeli Judo". Haaretz.
Egorov, Boris (May 29, 2019). "Why Vladimir Putin would have struggled to be a black belt in the Soviet Union". Russia Beyond.
"The History of Sombo". Members.tripod.com. Retrieved February 21, 2016.
"Seeds of Mitsuyo Maeda". September 23, 2014.
Eros, Rildo. "História do Judô". Archived from the original on 2009-02-10.
Drysdale, Robert (February 13, 2018). "Who was Oscar Gracie and who taught him Jiu-Jitsu?". Global Training Report. Archived from the original on February 15, 2018. Retrieved 2023-04-16.
"10th Planet Locations". 2023-04-17.
Kano, Jigoro. "The Contribution of Judo to Education". Judo Info. Retrieved 10 September 2012.
Blumenstein, Boris; Lidor, Ronnie; Tenenbaum, Gershon (2005). "Periodization and planning of psychological preparation in elite combat sport programs: The case of judo". International Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology. 3 (1): 7–25. doi:10.1080/1612197X.2005.9671755. S2CID 144190858.
Gabriel, Caio (2022). "Towards Mental Training for Elite Judo Athletes". The Arts and Sciences of Judo. 2 (2): 18–21.
Inokuma and Sato (1987) p. 253
Hill, Robert (2010). World of Martial Arts. London, Kentucky: LuLu Publishing. Chapter 8. ISBN 978-0-557-01663-1.
Inokuma and Sato (1987), p. 253; Lowry (2006), pp. 35–61
Lowry (2006) p. 39
Hoare (2005), p. 8
"Introduction of the Blue Judogi". International Judo Federation. Archived from the original on September 12, 2007.
"Judogi Guidance". International Judo Federation. January 2011. Archived from the original on July 20, 2011. Retrieved March 11, 2011.
"International Judo Federation". Retrieved March 13, 2011.
"Go Ranks". Mechner. Archived from the original on 19 December 2017. Retrieved 18 September 2017.
Ohlenkamp, Neil (March 25, 2007). "The Judo Rank System". JudoInfo.com. Retrieved October 15, 2007.
Callan, Mike (May 2015). "History of the Grading System". ResearchGate.com. Retrieved March 6, 2020.
"28 October World Judo Day". European Judo Union. 2011-10-28. Retrieved 2023-02-23.
"Bring a Friend - NEW". www.ijf.org. Retrieved 2024-07-21.
Cowen, Thea (2022-10-28). "WORLD JUDO DAY 2022: INCLUSION". European Judo Union. Retrieved 2023-02-23.
Cowen, Thea (2021-10-28). "HAPPY WORLD JUDO DAY 2021!". European Judo Union. Retrieved 2023-02-23.
"WJD 2020: Show Us How Much We Are Stronger Together". www.ijf.org. Retrieved 2023-02-23.
"WJD 2019: Plant a Tree". www.ijf.org. Retrieved 2023-02-23.
"WORLD JUDO DAY 2018: FRIENDSHIP". European Judo Union. 2018-10-22. Retrieved 2023-02-23.

    "WORLD JUDO DAY 2017: COURAGE". European Judo Union. 2017-10-26. Retrieved 2023-02-23.

Bibliography

    Adams, Neil (1991), Armlocks, Judo Masterclass Techniques, London: Ippon Books
    Cachia, Jeffrey (2009), Effective Judo, Sarasota, FL: Elite Publishing
    Daigo, Toshiro (2005), Kodokan Judo Throwing Techniques, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha International
    De Crée, Carl (2015), "Kōdōkan jūdō's three orphaned forms of counter techniques – Part 3: The Katame-waza ura-no-kata ―"Forms of reversing controlling techniques"", Archives of Budo, 11: 155–174
    De Crée, Carl (2012), The origin, inner essence, biomechanical fundamentals, and current teaching and performance anomalies of Kōdōkan jūdō's esoteric sixth kata: The Itsutsu-no-kata ―"Forms of five", Rome, Italy: University of Rome
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2009a), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Elusive Tenth Kata: The Gō-no-kata - "Forms of Proper Use of Force" - Part 1", Archives of Budo, 5: 55–73
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2009b), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Elusive Tenth Kata: The Gō-no-kata - "Forms of Proper Use of Force" - Part 2", Archives of Budo, 5: 74–82
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2009c), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Elusive Tenth Kata: The Gō-no-kata - "Forms of Proper Use of Force" - Part 3", Archives of Budo, 5: 83–95
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2011a), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Inauspicious Ninth Kata: The Joshi goshinhō - "Self-defense methods for females" - Part 1", Archives of Budo, 7: 105–123
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2011b), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Inauspicious Ninth Kata: The Joshi goshinhō - "Self-defense methods for females" - Part 2", Archives of Budo, 7: 125–137
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2011c), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Inauspicious Ninth Kata: The Joshi goshinhō - "Self-defense methods for females" - Part 3", Archives of Budo, 7: 137–139
    Fromm, Alan; Soames, Nicolas (1982), Judo - The Gentle Way, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul
    Fukuda, Keiko (2004), Ju-No-Kata, Berkeley, California: North Atlantic Books
    Harrison, E. J. (1952), Manual of Judo, London: Foulsham
    Hoare, Syd (2005), "Development of judo competition rules" (PDF), sydhoare.com, archived from the original (PDF) on July 1, 2019, retrieved September 16, 2012
    Hoare, Syd (2009), A History of Judo, London: Yamagi Books
    Inman, Roy (2005), The Judo Handbook, UK: Silverdale Books
    Inokuma, Isao; Sato, Noboyuki (1987), Best Judo, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha International
    Ishikawa, Takahiko; Draeger, Donn F. (1999), Judo Training Methods, Boston, Massachusetts: Tuttle Publishing
    Itō, Kazuo (1970), Jūdō no nage- to katame-no-ura-waza, Tōkyō: Seibunkan Shoten
    Jones, Llyr C.; Hanon, Michael J. (2010), "The way of kata in Kodokan Judo", Journal of Asian Martial Arts, 19: 8–37
    Kano, Jigoro (1994), Kodokan Judo, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha
    Kano, Jigoro (2005), Naoki, Murata (ed.), Mind Over Muscle: Writings from the founder of Judo, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha
    Kano, Jigoro (2008), Watson, Brian N. (ed.), Judo Memoirs of Jigoro Kano, Victoria, BC: Trafford Publishing
    Kashiwazaki, Katsuhiko (1992), Shimewaza, Judo Masterclass Techniques, London: Ippon Books
    Kashiwazaki, Katsuhiko (1997), Osaekomi, Judo Masterclass Techniques, London: Ippon Books
    Koizumi, Gunji (April 1947), "1936 Conversation with Jigoro Kano", Budokwai Bulletin
    Law, Mark (2007), The Pyjama Game, A Journey Into Judo, London, UK: Aurum Press
    Lowry, Dave (2006), In the dojo. A guide to the rituals and etiquette of the Japanese martial arts, Boston, MA: Weatherhill
    Mifune, Kyuzo (2004), The Canon of Judo: Classic teachings on principles and techniques, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha
    Ohlenkamp, Neil (2006), Judo Unleashed: Essential Throwing & Grappling Techniques for Intermediate to Advanced Martial Artists, Maidenhead: McGraw-Hill
    Otaki, Tadao; Draeger, Donn F. (1997), Judo Formal Techniques: Complete guide to Kodokan randori no kata (reprint ed.), Clarendon, Vermont: Tuttle Publishing
    Takahashi, Masao (2005), Mastering Judo, Champaign, Illinois: Human Kinetics

External links

    International Judo Federation (IJF)—The worldwide governing body for judo
    All judoka profiles at Judoinside.com
    Kodokan Judo Institute—Headquarters of judo (Kano Jigoro's school)

Articles and topics related to judo
Judo at Wikipedia's sister projects:

    Definitions from Wiktionary
    Media from Commons
    News from Wikinews
    Data from Wikidata

Authority control databases Edit this at Wikidata
Categories:

    JudoDōGendai budoSummer Olympic sportsJapanese martial artsSport in JapanGrapplingMixed martial arts stylesSports originating in Japan

    This page was last edited on 21 March 2025, at 16:43 (UTC).
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

    Privacy policy
    About Wikipedia
    Disclaimers
    Contact Wikipedia
    Code of Conduct
    Developers
    Statistics
    Cookie statement
    Mobile view

    Wikimedia Foundation
    Powered by MediaWiki

Judo
Add topic




Wikipedia The Free Encyclopedia

    Donate
    Create account
    Log in

Contents
(Top)
Founder

Highest grades

    Male – Kōdōkan 10th dan
    Male – International Judo Federation 10th dan
    Male – 10th dan, National Governing Body or Continental Union
    Independent Bodies, 10th dan
    Female – 10th dan, National Governing Body

Pioneers

Notable competitors

        Male
        Female
    Others
    See also
    References
    External links

List of judoka

    Article
    Talk

    Read
    Edit
    View history

Tools

Appearance
Text

    Small
    Standard
    Large

Width

    Standard
    Wide

Color (beta)

    Automatic
    Light
    Dark

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Kyuzo Mifune and Jigoro Kano

This is a list of highly notable judoka (judo practitioners).
This is a dynamic list and may never be able to satisfy particular standards for completeness. You can help by adding missing items with reliable sources.
Founder

    Jigorō Kanō (Japan, 1860–1938) founded judo, and established the Kōdōkan in 1882. Judo was the first Japanese martial art to gain widespread international recognition, and the first to become an official Olympic sport. Kanō was also a pioneer of international sports. Accomplishments included being the first Asian member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC). His official honours and decorations included the First Order of Merit and Grand Order of the Rising Sun and the Third Imperial Degree. He was inducted to the IJF Hall of Fame on 14 May 1999.[1] The IJF Hall of Fame was established in 1999.[1][2]

Highest grades

A number of living judoka have been promoted to 10th dan by the Olympic Games-affiliated International Judo Federation. Some national (country) associations, continental unions and independent (often multi-style) bodies have also promoted judoka to 10th dan.

Only fifteen people have been promoted to 10th dan by the Kōdōkan. Twelve were promoted between 1935 and 1984.[3] The other three were promoted together on 8 January 2006. However, as of October 2022-end, all three of the 2006 promotion receivers are deceased.[4]
Male – Kōdōkan 10th dan
Toshirō Daigo after being crowned All-Japan Judo Champion in 1954

    Yoshitsugu Yamashita (Japan, 1865–1935) (his first name is sometimes mispronounced as Yoshiaki) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1935, the first person awarded 10th dan by the Kōdōkan. Although he was promoted posthumously his promotion was antedated to be effective two days before his passing. He was also a pioneer of judo in the United States, where he taught judo to President Theodore Roosevelt.
    Hajime Isogai (Japan, 1871–1947) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1937. He was the first person to receive and actually hold this rank while still alive.
    Hideichi Nagaoka (Japan, 1876–1952) (his first name is sometimes mispronounced as either Hidekazu or Shūichi) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1937. He was the last of only three people to be promoted to 10th dan by Kanō-shihan himself.
    Kyūzō Mifune (Japan, 1883–1965) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1945 under the presidency of Jirō Nangō. Mifune is considered to be one of the greatest judo technicians ever.[5] Mifune also held the title of Meijin and the rank of 10th dan awarded by the Kokusai Budō Renmei/IMAF.
    Kunisaburō Iizuka (Japan, 1875–1958) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1946.
    Kaichirō Samura (Japan, 1880–1964) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1948.
    Shotarō Tabata (Japan, 1884–1950) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1948.
    Yoshitarō Okano (Japan, 1885–1967) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1967.
    Matsutarō Shōriki (Japan, 1885–1969) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1969. He was also known as the father of Japanese professional baseball.
    Shōzō Nakano (Japan, 1888–1977) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1977.
    Tamio Kurihara (Japan, 1896–1979) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1979.
    Sumiyuki Kotani (Japan, 1903–1991) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan in 1984.
    Ichirō Abe (Japan, 1922–2022) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan on 8 January 2006, at age 83. Abe was international chairperson of the All Nippon Judo Federation and had strong links internationally through coaching in Europe.
    Toshirō Daigo (Japan, 1926–2021) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan on 8 January 2006, at age 80. Daigo was a two-time winner of the All Nippon Judo Tournament (1951 and 1954), and a former manager of the Japanese national team, and until his retirement was the Chief-Instructor at the Kōdōkan. Daigo was known by the nickname Mr. Kōdōkan.
    Yoshimi Ōsawa (Japan, 1926–2022) promoted to Kōdōkan 10th dan on 8 January 2006, at age 79. Ōsawa coached at the Kōdōkan for a long time, and was recognised for his support of women's judo. Ōsawa was known by the nickname Current Ushiwakamaru (Ushiwakamaru was the childhood name of a legendary twelfth-century samurai who was small but quick.)

Male – International Judo Federation 10th dan

    Charlie Palmer (United Kingdom, 1930–2001), IJF 10th Dan (promoted in 1996), was the first non-Japanese to be the President of the IJF. He was inducted to the IJF Hall of Fame on 8 September 2003.[1]
    Anton Geesink (Netherlands, 1934–2010), IJF 10th Dan (promoted in 1997), was the first non-Japanese ever to have won a World Championship. He was inducted to the IJF Hall of Fame on 8 September 2003.[1]
    George Kerr (United Kingdom, 1937–) IJF 10th dan (promoted in 2010).
    Yoshihirō ‘Yosh’ Uchida (United States, 1920–2024), USA Judo 10th dan, July 19, 2013 - subsequently acknowledged and recognized by the IJF.[6] Head judo coach at San Jose State University for over 70 years, and served as the coach of the first US Olympic Judo Team at the 1964 Games held in Tokyo.[7]
    Franco Capelletti (Italy, 1938–) IJF 10th dan (promoted in August 2017). Capelletti is a former Technical Director (1975–1988) and (2004–2008) and vice-president (2004–2016) of the Italian Judo Federation FIJLKAM, Sports Director of the EJU (1995–2003), and President of the IJF Kata Commission (2008-date). The intent to promote Capellettti to this rank was announced in July 2017, with the promotion being awarded in August 2017 at the Senior World Judo Championships in Budapest.
    Jean-Luc Rougé (France, 1949–) IJF 10th dan (promoted in December 2023).
    Peter Herrmann (Germany/Australia, 1941–) IJF 10th dan (promoted in October 2024).

Male – 10th dan, National Governing Body or Continental Union

    Mikinosuke Kawaishi (Japan/France, 1899–1969) FFJDA (French Judo Federation) 10th dan[8]
    Seok Jin-gyeong (Korea, 1912–1990) (his surname is also sometimes spelled Suk), Korean Judo Association (KJA), 1990. First Korean to be promoted to the rank of 10th dan.
    Shin Do-hwan (Korea, approx. 1920–2004), KJA 10th dan, promoted approx. 2000.
    Chae Jung Gyum Suhn Sang Nim (Korea, date of birth currently unknown–2007[9]) (his name is also sometimes spelled Lee Suhn Sang Nim), KJA 10th dan, May 20, 2007.
    Henri Courtine (France, 1930–2021), FFJDA 10th dan (promoted in 2007).
    Jeremy L. Glick (United States, 1970–2001), USJA Honorary 10th dan, September 17, 2008. A press release in 2011 from the USJA mentions George Harris' 10th dan promotion as the first USJA 10th dan promotion hence suggesting that Glick's promotion was an honorary promotion.[10]
    Jaap Nauwelaerts de Agé (Netherlands, 1917–2016), Dutch Judo Federation (JBN), 10th dan, November 15, 2008.
    Yi Bang-geun (Korea/US, 1924–) (his surname is also sometimes spelled Lee), KJA 10th dan, January 2010.
    Jang Kyeong-sun (Korea, 1922–2022) (his name is also sometimes spelled Chang Kyung Soon), KJA 10th dan, date of promotion unknown.
    George Harris (United States, 1933–2011), USJA 10th dan, January 15, 2011. First 10th dan recognized by the three major judo organizations in the US. Placed 5th in the 1956 World Championships, won six Air Force judo championships, four US National titles, two gold medals in the Pan-American Games, and represented the United States in the 1964 Olympics, and was one of the leaders of the Armed Forces Judo Association (AFJA) that later evolved into the United States Judo Association (USJA), founded in 1968.[10]
    Karl Geis (United States, 1933–2014), USJA 10th dan, March 12, 2014. Geis was one of the founders of the USJA. During the late 1950s and early 1960s Geis practiced in Japan where his judo sensei included Osawa, Daigo, Kotani, Kudo, Miyake, Kobayashi, and Ushijima. Miyake Tsunako and Tomiki Kenji were his primary Aikido teachers, from which he received Rokudan directly from Tomiki-shihan. Upon his return to the US he opened his own dōjō in Houston which he ran until shortly before his death on April 7, 2014. Geis contributed to the development of some of our early U.S. judo Olympians and many well-known American judo leaders.
    Massao Shinohara (Brazil, 1925–2020), Brazilian National Federation 10th dan, 18 November 2017.
    Haruo Imamura (1933–2017), previously a Kōdōkan 8th dan (since 2000) and a USJF 9th dan (since 2007), was posthumously promoted to judo 10th dan by the USJF on May 12, 2018. In 1956 Imamura was captain of Tenri University's successful judo team. He later moved to the US, where he won the 1960 US Nationals in the -180 lbs division and also won the overall Grand Champion title.
    Jim Bregman (United States, 1941–), USJA 10th dan, January 19, 2018. Bregman represented the U.S. at judo in the 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games, winning a bronze medal in the under 60 kg category. He was presented with his 10 dan certificate on July 7, 2018.
    Harold E. Sharp[11] (United States, 4-9-1927 to 3-21-2021), Nanka 10th dan, November 12, 2020. The Nanka Judo Yudanshakai (SoCal Judo Association) recognized by Jigoro Kano in 1930, bestowed the highest rank on Sensei Harold E. Sharp 'Hal'. Known worldwide for his 1955 book 'The Sport of Judo' and subsequent books including his latest ' The Road to Black Belt', Sharp Sensei was gifted by the Prince of Japan in 1954 for great achievements in Japan for winning an international judo competition, and being instrumental to the growth of judo after WWII leading to its inclusion in the Olympics. The Hal Sharp Teacher's Foundation documents his 75+ years of dedication to spreading judo's positive philosophy.
    Kyu-ha Kim[12] (United States, 1935–2021), USJA 10th dan, May 17, 2021. Kim was two-time Grand Champion of South Korea in the late 1950s prior to his move to the United States in 1960 where he settled in Pittsburgh, PA. He ran his own judo school and developed a cadre of renown students including Gary Goltz[13] and was the US Olympic Judo Coach in 1980. He also taught judo at the University of Pittsburgh since 1972.

Independent Bodies, 10th dan

    Kazuo Itō (Japan, 1898–1974), Kokusai Budō Renmei/IMAF, 10th dan Meijin (promotion date unknown). Itō, a student of Mifune, also held the rank of Kōdōkan 9th dan.
    Taksasue Itō (Japan, 1887–1981), Kokusai Budō Renmei/IMAF, 10th dan Meijin (promotion date unknown). Itō, a previous personal secretary to Jigorō Kanō, also held the rank of Kōdōkan 9th dan.
    Tokuji Oshita (Japan, date of birth unknown) (in some sources his first name omitted and instead substituted by the initial K.), Kokusai Budō Renmei/IMAF, 10th dan Meijin (promotion date unknown).
    Philip S. Porter (United States, 1925–2011), USMA 10th dan, January 1, 2005.
    Dieter Teige (Germany, 1939–), Deutsches Dan Kollegium, 10th dan, October 30, 2010. Teige, a former president of the Deutsches Dan Kollegium, is the first German 10th dan-holder. His rank is recognized neither by the national governing body, the German Judo Federation (DJB) nor was it homologated by the International Judo Federation.
    Brian Jacks (UK, 1946–), still listed with his official judo rank of 8th dan since November 1994,[14] is now also listed by a British multi-martial arts organization called World Martial Arts Council, as a 10th dan.[15] No specific promotion date was mentioned. Brian Jacks was the first judoka to win a medal in the World Championships for the UK (bronze, 1967, Salt Lake City). He also competed at three Olympic Games - winning bronze, 1972, Munich.
    Jack Hearn (UK, 1923–), FESECAM 10th dan September 2020. Achievements unknown.

Female – 10th dan, National Governing Body

    Keiko Fukuda (Japan/United States, 1913–2013), USA Judo and USJF 10th dan (promoted in 2011),[16] Kōdōkan Joshi 9th dan.[17] She was part of a group of three women, including also Masako Noritomi, who were the first to be promoted to Joshi 6th dan after a glass ceiling prior to 1972 apparently held back women from being awarded promotions above Joshi 5th dan. Fukuda also was the first woman to be promoted to Joshi 9th dan by the Kōdōkan and the 32nd or 33rd person in the world ever to be promoted to 10th dan in judo.[18]

Pioneers
Shozo Awazu in Paris, in 2003, Kōdōkan 9th dan, pioneer of judo in France

    Kenshiro Abbe (Japan, 1915–1985), Kōdōkan 8th dan, was the youngest student to gain his 4th Dan in Judo. Founded the British Judo Council alongside Masutaro Otani. He also founded the British Kendo Council, the British Karate Council, and the International Budo Council, and is credited with the introduction of aikido to the UK and Europe.
    Masutaro Otani (Japan, 1896–1977), 8th Dan was a master of judo and a pioneer of judo in the United Kingdom. He founded the British Judo Council alongside Kenshiro Abbe. He was also the leading student of Yukio Tani, another pioneer of judo and jujutsu in the UK.
    Shozo Awazu (Japan/France, 1923–2016), Kōdōkan 9th dan, pioneer of judo in France.
    Haku Michigami (Japan/France, 1912–2002), FFJDA (French Judo Federation) 9th dan, Kōdōkan 7th dan, sent in France by Tamio Kurihara (10th dan) in 1953. Teacher of Anton Geesink.
    Kiyoshi Kobayashi (Japan, 1925-2013), Kōdōkan 9th dan, was the «father» of Portuguese judo and one of the founders of the Portuguese Judo Federation.
    Masahiko Kimura (Japan, 1917–1993), Kōdōkan 7th dan, defeated Helio Gracie, only lost four times in his entire career.
    Gunji Koizumi (Japan, 1885–1965), Kōdōkan 8th dan, president and founder of the Budokwai. He spent over sixty-four years in judo, teaching it until the day before he died in April 1965.
    Tsunejirō Tomita (Japan, 1865–1937), Kōdōkan 7th dan, teacher of Mitsuyo Maeda. One of the first two students to be awarded Kōdōkan first grade (shodan). One of the four Guardians of the Kōdōkan.
    Shirō Saigō (Japan, 1886–1922), Kōdōkan 5th dan. One of the first two students to be awarded Kōdōkan first grade (shodan), and the first student to be promoted by Jigorō Kanō to Kōdōkan 4th dan. One of the four Guardians of the Kōdōkan. Inspiration for Akira Kurosawa's 1943 directorial debut, Sugata Sanshirō.
    Sakujirō Yokoyama (Japan, 1864–1912), Kōdōkan 8th dan. First person to obtain the rank of 8th dan (was also the first 6th and 7th dan but shared this honor together with Yoshitsugu Yamashita), and one of the earliest disciples of Jigorō Kanō, considered the most formidable of all judo experts of his time. One of the four Guardians of the Kōdōkan.
    Mitsuyo Maeda (Japan, 1878–1941), Kōdōkan 7th dan, pioneer of judo in Brazil, the UK, and other countries, fundamental to the creation of Brazilian jiu-jitsu.
    Kenji Tomiki (Japan, 1900–1979), Kōdōkan 8th dan and Aikido 8th dan. Tomiki is perhaps best known in the judo world for his significant role in the committee that developed Kodokan Goshin Jutsu. His work Judo Appendix: Aikido, published in 1956, is considered a classic.
    Minoru Mochizuki (Japan, 1907–2003), Kōdōkan 8th dan and Aikido 10th dan. Under the tutelage of Jigorō Kanō, the founder of judo, Mochizuki became the youngest member of the Kobudō Kenkyūkai – an organization for the study, preservation and development of classical martial arts – established within the Kōdōkan. In 1930, he was sent by Jigorō Kanō to study aikijujutsu with Morihei Ueshiba. He was the uchi-deshi of Morihei Ueshiba at the Kōbukan dōjō for one year before opening his own dōjō in Shizuoka City in 1931.
    Ryuzo Ogawa (Japan/Brazil, 1883–1975), Kōdōkan 8th dan, pioneer of judo in Brazil, founder of the Brazilian Budokan Association.[19]

Notable competitors
Male

    Anton Geesink (Netherlands, 1934–2010), World Champion 1961 as first Judoka not from Japan, Olympic Champion 1964 in Tokio, 20-times European champion, First European Judoka with highest Dangrade 10th Dan.
    Ezio Gamba (Italy, 1958-), Olympic gold and silver medalist, first Italian who won Olympic gold, currently is the coach of Russian team.
    Neil Adams (Great Britain, 1958-), World Champion 1981 (first non Japanese to win the title in u78kg), Olympic Silver Medallist in 1980 Moscow & 1984 Los Angeles, 5x European Champion in two consecutive weights 71 kg & 78 kg, 9th Dan presented by the IJF in Paris 2019.
    Ilias Iliadis (Greece, 1984–), Olympic gold and bronze medalist and gold medalist on Masters and three times world champion).
    Teddy Riner (France, 1989–), three-time Olympic gold medalist and eleven-time World Champion.
    David Douillet (France, 1969–), two-time Olympic gold medalist and four-time World Champion.
    Isao Okano (Japan, 1944–), Olympic gold medalist, World Champion, and two time All-Japan champion.
    Kosei Inoue (Japan, 1978–), Olympic gold medalist and three-time World Champion.
    Ole Bischof (Germany, 1979–), Olympic gold and silver medalist.
    Udo Quellmalz (Germany, 1967–), Olympic gold and bronze medalist and two times World Champion).
    Jeon Ki-young (South Korea, 1973–), Olympic gold medalist and three-time World Champion.
    Toshihiko Koga (Japan, 1967–2021), Olympic gold medalist and three-time World Champion.
    Wim Ruska (Netherlands, 1940–2015), two-time Olympic gold medalist and two-time Olympic World Champion.
    Hitoshi Saitō (Japan, 1961–2015), two-time Olympic gold medalist and World Champion. Coached 2004 Japanese Olympic judo team.
    Yasuhirō Yamashita (Japan, 1957–), four-time World Champion and one-time Olympic gold medalist. Compiled a streak of 203 victories (with 7 draws) up until his retirement.
    Hidehiko Yoshida (Japan, 1969–), World Champion, Olympic gold medalist, and MMA fighter.
    Tadahirō Nomura (Japan, 1974–), 3-times olympic gold medalist and one-time World Champion (under 60 kg)
    Antal Kovács (Hungary, 1972–), first Hungarian Olympic gold medalist and World Champion, ten-time World Cup Champion, six-time International Tournament winner.
    Peter Seisenbacher (Austria, 1960–), two-time Olympic gold medalist and one-time World Champion.
    Lukáš Krpálek (Czechia, 1990–) current world champion, former European champion and two-time Olympic gold medalist (-100 kg and +100 kg). He is the most successful judoka in Czech and Czechoslovakian history.

Female

    Noriko Anno (Japan, 1976–), Olympic gold medalist and four-time World Champion.
    Ingrid Berghmans (Belgium, 1961–), six-time World Champion.
    Driulis González (Cuba, 1973–), Olympic gold medalist and three-time World Champion.
    Kye Sun-hui (North Korea, 1979–), Olympic gold medalist and four-time World Champion.
    Ryōko Tani (Japan, 1976–), two-time Olympic gold medalist and seven-time World Champion.
    Masae Ueno (Japan, 1979–), two-time Olympic gold medalist and two-time World Champion.
    Ayumi Tanimoto (Japan, 1981–), two-time Olympic gold medalist
    Xian Dongmei (China, 1975–), two-time Olympic gold medalist
    Tong Wen (China, 1983–), Olympic gold medalist and seven-time World Champion.
    Ulla Werbrouck (Belgium, 1972–), Olympic gold medalist and six-time European champion.
    Majlinda Kelmendi (Kosovo, 1991−) Olympic gold medalist, two-time world Champion, two-times European champion, 1st Kosovar Olympic gold medalist in Judo.
    Kayla Harrison (United States, 1990–), two-time Olympic Gold Medalist, World Champion[20]
    Ronda Rousey (United States, 1987–), Rousey became the first American woman to earn an Olympic medal in Judo at the Summer Olympics in Beijing in 2008 and first female UFC champion.[21]
    Paula Pareto (Argentina, 1986–) She was world champion in 2015 and winner of a bronze medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and a gold medal at the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics. She became the first Argentine woman to be Olympic champion and the first athlete from Argentina that won two Olympic medals in individual disciplines. In 2021, she became the first Argentine to carry the Olympic flag at the opening ceremony of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, representing the American continent.
    Clarisse Agbegnenou (France, 1992–), Olympic gold medalist, six-time World Champion and five-time European champion.

Others
Jan Snijders

    Trevor Leggett (United Kingdom), (1914–2000) was one of the first Europeans to study martial arts in Japan, and the first Western ever to hold the rank of 6th dan in judo awarded by the Kōdōkan (or any other organization) (January 1955). Leggett was also a scholar and prolific writer on Japanese culture. He was honoured for this by being awarded the Order of the Sacred Treasure by the Emperor of Japan in 1984.
    Willy Cahill (US, 1935–), has been teaching and coaching Judo since 1963. His pupils have captured more than 1200 national and international titles[3]. A former judo coach at Stanford, Cahill was the U.S. Olympic judo mentor in 1988. He also coached the U.S. national judo team from 1980 to 1990.
    Anthony Clarke (Australia, 1961–), two-time World blind judo champion and gold medalist in the paralympics. Two-time Australian champion against sighted opponents.
    Gene LeBell (US, 1932–2022), two time AAU Judo Champion. Later turned to wrestling, stunt work, and refereeing matches including Muhammad Ali vs. Antonio Inoki. Prolific author.
    Gokor Chivichyan (Armenia, 1963–), United States Ju-Jitsu Federation 7th dan in judo,[22] mostly known from sambo, MMA, and popular Internet websites.
    Jason Morris (US, 1967–), 8th dan 92 Olympic Silver Medalist with 20 gold medals in international competition, 2008 Olympic coach.
    Jan Snijders (Netherlands, 1943–), instructor and referee at the World Championships and Olympic games. Awarded a silver medal by the International Judo Federation in 2003 for his contributions to judo. 8th dan grade holder.
    Rena Kanokogi (US, 1935–2009), 7th dan, dubbed "founding mother" of Judo for fighting for equal women's rights and competitions in the sport.
    Vladimir Putin (Russian Federation, 1952–), Putin was awarded 8th dan in 2012 and became the first Russian to have been awarded the eighth dan, joining a handful of judo fighters in the world who have achieved such status.[23] Putin was awarded 7th dan in 2009[24] and 6th dan (prestigious red & white belt) at the Kodokan in 2000.[25] In the 1970s, he was awarded a Master of Sports in both judo and sambo. Putin has described judo as "my favorite sport", and he continues to practice it.
    Naoki Murata, (Japan, 1949–2020), 8th dan. Authored many books on judo, curator of the Kōdōkan Judo Museum.
    Ilham Zakiyev (Azerbaijan, 1980–), two-time World and five-time blind judo champion and two-time gold medalist in the paralympics.
    Kyu-ha Kim (Korea, 1935–2021) 10th dan two-time Grand Champion of South Korea in the late 1950s

See also

    List of celebrity judoka
    List of Olympic medalists in judo
    List of world champions in judo
    List of Canadian judoka

References

"IJF Hall of Fame in Paris" (PDF). American Judo – A Journal of the United States Judo Association: 11–12. 2005. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2016-03-04. Retrieved 2016-02-24.
"International Judo Federation". Intjudo.eu. Archived from the original on 2016-03-04. Retrieved 2016-02-24.
"Profiles of Judo 10th Dan Holders - Judan". Judoinfo.com. Archived from the original on 2012-03-20. Retrieved 2016-02-24.
"Kodokan 10th Dan Promotions". Judoinfo.com. Archived from the original on 2016-03-02. Retrieved 2016-02-24.
"【スポーツ】 三船久蔵". Bunka.pref.iwate.jp. Archived from the original on 2012-02-09. Retrieved 2016-02-24.
"San Jose State University Judo's Uchida Receives Red Belt". Team USA. Archived from the original on 2013-12-25. Retrieved 2013-12-24.
Almond, Elliott (June 28, 2024). "Legendary San Jose State judo coach Yosh Uchida dies at age 104". THe Mercury News.
Michel Brousse, Le Judo, son histoire, ses succès, Paris, Minerva, 2002
"2008 news".
Goltz, Gary S. (January 22, 2011). "Press Release" (PDF). United States Judo Association. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2013-10-01. Retrieved 2012-04-13.
"the-sport-of-judo".
"Kyu-ha Kim" (PDF).
"sensei gary".
"British Judo Association - Dan Grade Register". British Judo Association. 22 November 1994. Archived from the original on 14 July 2018. Retrieved 12 April 2018.
"WorldMAC News". World Martial Arts Council. Archived from the original on 25 May 2018. Retrieved 15 October 2017.
Meredith May, Chronicle Staff Writer (6 August 2011). "Judo master makes 10th degree black belt". SFGate. Archived from the original on 12 March 2012. Retrieved 28 October 2021.
"Keiko Fukuda Promoted to 10th Dan July 2011" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on April 11, 2013. Retrieved June 19, 2012.
"Yahoo Health". Shine.yahoo.com. Archived from the original on 2014-04-09. Retrieved 2016-02-24.
W. D. Wuth, "Ryuzo Ogawa's 80 years of Judo", Black Belt, May 1972
"Olympics: Harrison wins first judo gold for America". The Times of India. Archived from the original on 5 August 2012. Retrieved 2 August 2012.
Mihoces, Gary (13 August 2008). "Rousey's bronze makes U.S. history in women's judo". USA Today. Archived from the original on 2016-03-24. Retrieved 2016-02-05.
"Gokor Chivichyan - Southern California Representative". United States Ju-Jitsu Federation. 2010-02-09. Archived from the original on 2015-02-08. Retrieved 2015-02-08.
[1] Archived 2019-04-02 at the Wayback Machine Putin awarded eighth dan by international body by Reuters
"Legendary Karate Master Arrives to Moscow to Award Vladimir Putin Black Belt >> РИА "Восток-Медиа"". Archived from the original on 2014-03-01. Retrieved 2012-10-11. Legendary Karate Master Arrives to Moscow to Award Vladimir Putin Black Belt

    Black-Belt President Putin: A Man of Gentle Arts Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine by Yasuhiro Yamashita

External links

    Judo Legends – Jason Morris Judo Center (realjudo.net)
    1984 Los Angeles Summer Games Judo Event Magazine