
Judo (柔道, jūdō), meaning "gentle way", is a modern Japanese martial art and combat sport, that originated in Japan in the late nineteenth century. Its most prominent feature is its competitive element, where the object is to either throw one's opponent to the ground, pin the opponent to the ground, or force an opponent to submit by a joint lock or choke. Strikes as well as weapons defences are a part of Judo, but only in pre-arranged forms (kata) and are not allowed in Judo competition or free practice[1].

Techniques are generally intended to turn an opponent’s force to one’s own advantage rather than to oppose it directly. A ritual of courtesy in practice is intended to promote an attitude of calm readiness and confidence. The usual costume, known as jūdōgi, is a loose jacket and trousers of strong white cloth. White belts are worn by novices and black by masters, with intermediate grades denoted by other colours. Jūdōka (students of judo) perform the sport with bare feet.

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article is about the martial art and sport. For the computer programming environment, see JUDO (software).
Judo
Kyuzo Mifune (left) and Kanō Jigorō (right)
Focus	Grappling, wrestling, ground fighting
Hardness	Full contact
Country of origin	Japan
Creator	Kanō Jigorō
Famous practitioners	See: List of judoka
Parenthood	Various koryū Jujutsu schools, principally Tenjin Shin'yō-ryū, Kitō-ryū,
Ancestor arts	

A judo teacher is called sensei (先生).[110] Traditionally, that title was reserved for instructors of 4th dan and above.[111]
Judogi (uniform)
Main article: Judogi
The judogi is made from a heavy weave to withstand the stress of throwing and grappling.

Judo is a hierarchical art, where seniority of judoka is designated by what is known as the kyū (級, kyū) -dan (段, dan) ranking system. This system was developed by Jigoro Kano and was based on the ranking system in the board game Go.[118]

Judo (Japanese: 柔道, Hepburn: Jūdō, lit. 'gentle way') is an unarmed modern Japanese martial art, combat sport, Olympic sport (since 1964), and the most prominent form of jacket wrestling competed internationally.[3][4][5] Judo was created in 1882 by Kanō Jigorō (嘉納 治五郎) as an eclectic martial art, distinguishing itself from its predecessors (primarily Tenjin Shinyo-ryu jujutsu and Kitō-ryū jujutsu) due to an emphasis on "randori" (乱取り, lit. 'free sparring') instead of kata (形, kata, pre-arranged forms) alongside its removal of striking and weapon training elements.[3][4][6] Judo rose to prominence for its dominance over established jujutsu schools in tournaments hosted by the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department (警視庁武術大会, Keishicho Bujutsu Taikai), resulting in its adoption as the department's primary martial art.[4][3] A judo practitioner is called a "judoka" (柔道家, jūdōka), and the judo uniform is called "judogi" (柔道着, jūdōgi, lit. 'judo attire').

    Adams, Neil (1991), Armlocks, Judo Masterclass Techniques, London: Ippon Books
    Cachia, Jeffrey (2009), Effective Judo, Sarasota, FL: Elite Publishing
    Daigo, Toshiro (2005), Kodokan Judo Throwing Techniques, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha International
    De Crée, Carl (2015), "Kōdōkan jūdō's three orphaned forms of counter techniques – Part 3: The Katame-waza ura-no-kata ―"Forms of reversing controlling techniques"", Archives of Budo, 11: 155–174
    De Crée, Carl (2012), The origin, inner essence, biomechanical fundamentals, and current teaching and performance anomalies of Kōdōkan jūdō's esoteric sixth kata: The Itsutsu-no-kata ―"Forms of five", Rome, Italy: University of Rome
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2009a), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Elusive Tenth Kata: The Gō-no-kata - "Forms of Proper Use of Force" - Part 1", Archives of Budo, 5: 55–73
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2009b), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Elusive Tenth Kata: The Gō-no-kata - "Forms of Proper Use of Force" - Part 2", Archives of Budo, 5: 74–82
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2009c), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Elusive Tenth Kata: The Gō-no-kata - "Forms of Proper Use of Force" - Part 3", Archives of Budo, 5: 83–95
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2011a), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Inauspicious Ninth Kata: The Joshi goshinhō - "Self-defense methods for females" - Part 1", Archives of Budo, 7: 105–123
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2011b), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Inauspicious Ninth Kata: The Joshi goshinhō - "Self-defense methods for females" - Part 2", Archives of Budo, 7: 125–137
    De Crée, Carl; Jones, Llyr C. (2011c), "Kōdōkan Jūdō's Inauspicious Ninth Kata: The Joshi goshinhō - "Self-defense methods for females" - Part 3", Archives of Budo, 7: 137–139
    Fromm, Alan; Soames, Nicolas (1982), Judo - The Gentle Way, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul
    Fukuda, Keiko (2004), Ju-No-Kata, Berkeley, California: North Atlantic Books
    Harrison, E. J. (1952), Manual of Judo, London: Foulsham
    Hoare, Syd (2005), "Development of judo competition rules" (PDF), sydhoare.com, archived from the original (PDF) on July 1, 2019, retrieved September 16, 2012
    Hoare, Syd (2009), A History of Judo, London: Yamagi Books
    Inman, Roy (2005), The Judo Handbook, UK: Silverdale Books
    Inokuma, Isao; Sato, Noboyuki (1987), Best Judo, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha International
    Ishikawa, Takahiko; Draeger, Donn F. (1999), Judo Training Methods, Boston, Massachusetts: Tuttle Publishing
    Itō, Kazuo (1970), Jūdō no nage- to katame-no-ura-waza, Tōkyō: Seibunkan Shoten
    Jones, Llyr C.; Hanon, Michael J. (2010), "The way of kata in Kodokan Judo", Journal of Asian Martial Arts, 19: 8–37
    Kano, Jigoro (1994), Kodokan Judo, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha
    Kano, Jigoro (2005), Naoki, Murata (ed.), Mind Over Muscle: Writings from the founder of Judo, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha
    Kano, Jigoro (2008), Watson, Brian N. (ed.), Judo Memoirs of Jigoro Kano, Victoria, BC: Trafford Publishing
    Kashiwazaki, Katsuhiko (1992), Shimewaza, Judo Masterclass Techniques, London: Ippon Books
    Kashiwazaki, Katsuhiko (1997), Osaekomi, Judo Masterclass Techniques, London: Ippon Books
    Koizumi, Gunji (April 1947), "1936 Conversation with Jigoro Kano", Budokwai Bulletin
    Law, Mark (2007), The Pyjama Game, A Journey Into Judo, London, UK: Aurum Press
    Lowry, Dave (2006), In the dojo. A guide to the rituals and etiquette of the Japanese martial arts, Boston, MA: Weatherhill
    Mifune, Kyuzo (2004), The Canon of Judo: Classic teachings on principles and techniques, Tokyo, Japan: Kodansha
    Ohlenkamp, Neil (2006), Judo Unleashed: Essential Throwing & Grappling Techniques for Intermediate to Advanced Martial Artists, Maidenhead: McGraw-Hill
    Otaki, Tadao; Draeger, Donn F. (1997), Judo Formal Techniques: Complete guide to Kodokan randori no kata (reprint ed.), Clarendon, Vermont: Tuttle Publishing
    Takahashi, Masao (2005), Mastering Judo, Champaign, Illinois: Human Kinetics

Judo was originally considered to be a form of Jujutsu and was known as Kano Jujutsu, though it came to be considered a separate martial art[2][3][4]. The practicers of this discipline are called "judoka" (柔道家, "judo performer")[5], and the judo uniform is called "judogi" (柔道着 or 柔道 衣 , "judo attire")[6].
History

This competitive spirit can be seen in the change in the attitude of many jūdōka in regard to scoring. Only clean throws demonstrating superior timing and a knowledge of body mechanics were rewarded with a score in the pre-Olympic period. Currently in judo, the scoring system awards an ippon (“one point”) for a conclusive technique that wins a match by its successful execution, a waza-ari (half point), and minor points (called yuko). In a major shift from traditional judo, in a modern match a jūdōka will often play conservatively and work for a win based only on partial scores from minor points, rather than risking all in the attempt for an ippon. This shift to competitive judo has been aided by the success of European and Russian jūdōka, influenced by their strong wrestling traditions and in particular the Russian development of sambo (which was itself based upon judo).
Judo
Japanese Martial Arts
Also called 	Kano Jujutsu
Country of origin 	Japan
Parent arts 	Jujutsu
Descendant arts 	Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, Sambo
Focus 	Throwing

Judo techniques were divided into three categories: throws or nage waza, controls or katame waza and kicks or atemi waza. In competition, atemi waza are not allowed.


American Traditional Jujutsu Association Judo Student Manual
Copyright 2016 Back to Menu 2-1
Chapter 2
The History of Kodokan Judo
The art of Jujutsu has many variations of the art, which leads to a diversity of approaches. Jujutsu schools (ryū) may
utilize all forms of grappling techniques to some degree (i.e. throwing, trapping, joint locks, holds, gouging, biting,
disengagements, striking, and kicking). In addition to jujutsu, many schools teach the use of weapons. While armed
and unarmed combat has been around for the entire history of mankind, it has been suggested that Jujutsu, as a
formal means of teaching, has been around for 600 to 1,000 years.
Judo, meaning "gentle way", is a modern martial art, combat and Olympic sport created in Japan in 1882 by Jigoro
Kano. Its most prominent feature is its competitive element, where the objective is to either throw or takedown an
opponent to the ground, immobilize or otherwise subdue an opponent with a pin, or force an opponent to submit
with a joint lock or a choke. Strikes and thrusts by hands and feet as well as weapons defenses are a part of Judo,
but only in pre-arranged forms (kata) and are not allowed in Judo competition or free practice (randori). A Judo
practitioner is called a Judoka.
The philosophy and subsequent pedagogy developed for Judo became the model for other modern Japanese martial
arts that developed from koryu, traditional schools. The worldwide spread of Judo has led to the development of a
number of offshoots such as Sambo and Brazilian jiu-jitsu.
The early history of Judo is inseparable from its founder, Japanese polymath and educator Jigoro Kano, (1860-
1938), born Shinnosuke Kano. Kano was born into a relatively affluent family. His father, Jirosaku, was the second
son of the head priest of the Shinto Hiyoshi shrine in Shiga Prefecture. He married Sadako Kano, daughter of the
owner of Kiku-Masamune sake brewing company and was adopted by the family, changing his name to Kano, and
ultimately became an official in the Bakufu government.
Jigoro Kano had an academic upbringing and, from the age of seven, he studied English, Japanese calligraphy and
the Four Confucian Texts under a number of tutors. When he was fourteen, Kano began boarding at an English-
medium school, Ikuei-Gijuku in Shiba, Tokyo. The culture of bullying endemic at this school was the catalyst that
caused Kano to seek out a Jujutsu dojo (training place) at which to train.
Early attempts to find a jujutsu teacher who was willing to take him on met with little success. With the fall of the
Tokugawa shogunate in the Meiji Restoration of 1868, jujutsu had become unfashionable in an increasingly
westernized Japan. Many of those who had once taught the art had been forced out of teaching or become so
disillusioned with it that they had simply given up. Nakai Umenari, an acquaintance of Kano's father and a former
soldier, agreed to show him kata, but not to teach him. The caretaker of his father's second house, Katagiri Ryuji,
also knew jujutsu, but would not teach it as he believed it was no longer of practical use. Another frequent visitor to
Kano's father's house, Imai Genshiro of Kyushin-ryu school of jujutsu, also refused. Several years passed before he
finally found a willing teacher.
In 1877, as a student at the Tokyo-Kaisei school (soon to become part of the newly founded Tokyo Imperial
University), Kano learned that many jujutsu teachers had been forced to pursue alternative careers, frequently
opening Seikotsu-in (traditional osteopathy practices). After inquiring at a number of these, Kano was referred to
Fukuda Hachinosuke (c.1828-1880), a teacher of the Tenjin Shin'yo-ryu of jujutsu, who had a small nine mat dojo
where he taught five students. Fukuda is said to have emphasized technique over formal exercise, sowing the seeds
of Kano's emphasis on randori (free practice) in Judo.
On Fukuda’s death in 1880, Kano, who had become his keenest and most able student in both randori and kata (pre-
arranged forms), was given the densho (scrolls) of the Fukuda dojo. Kano chose to continue his studies at another
Tenjin Shin'yo-ryu school, that of Iso Masatomo (c.1820-1881). Iso placed more emphasis on the practice of kata,
and entrusted randori instruction to assistants, increasingly to Kano. Iso died in June 1881 and Kano went on to
study at the dojo of Iikubo Tsunetoshi (1835-1889) of Kito-ryu. Like Fukuda, Iikubo placed much emphasis on
randori, with Kito-ryu having a greater focus on nage-waza, throwing techniques.
American Traditional Jujutsu Association Judo Student Manual
Copyright 2016 Back to Menu 2-2
In February 1882, Kano founded a school and dojo at the Eisho-ji, a Buddhist temple in what was then the Shitaya
ward of Tokyo (now the Higashi Ueno district of Taite ward). Iikubo, Kano's Kito-ryu instructor, attended the dojo
three days a week to help teach. Two years would pass before the temple would be called by the name Kodokan
("place for expounding the way") and although Kano had not yet received his Menkyo (certificate of mastery) in
Kito-ryu, this is now regarded as the Kodokan founding.
The Eisho-ji dojo was a relatively small affair, consisting of a twelve mat training area. Kano took in resident and
non-resident students, the first two being Tsunejiro Tomita and Shiro Saigo. In August, the following year, the both
Tomita and Saigo were granted shodan (first rank) grades, the first that had been awarded in any martial art.
Central to Kano's vision for Judo were the principles of seiryoku zen'yo (maximum efficiency, minimum effort) and
jita kyoei (mutual welfare and benefit). He illustrated the application of seiryoku zen'yo with the concept of ju yoku
go o seisu, softness controls hardness.
In short, resisting a more powerful opponent will result in your defeat, while adjusting to and evading your
opponent's attack will cause him to lose his balance, his power will be reduced, and you will defeat him. This can
apply whatever the relative values of power, thus making it possible for weaker opponents to beat significantly
stronger ones. This is the theory of ju yoku goo seisu. Kano realized that seiryoku zen'yo, initially conceived as a
jujutsu concept, had a wider philosophical application. Coupled with the Confucianist-influenced jita kyoei, the
wider application shaped the development of Judo from a martial art to a martial way. Kano rejected techniques that
did not conform to these principles and emphasized the importance of efficiency in the execution of techniques. He
was convinced that practice of jujutsu while conforming to these ideals was a route to self-improvement and the
betterment of society in general. He was, however, acutely conscious of the Japanese public's negative perception of
jujutsu. Kano believed that "jujutsu" was insufficient to describe his art: although Jutsu means “art” or "means", it
implies a method consisting of a collection of physical techniques. Accordingly, he changed the second character to
do, meaning way, road or path, which implies a more philosophical context than jutsu and has a common origin with
the Chinese concept of tao. Thus Kano renamed it Judo.

Judo practitioners traditionally wear white uniforms called keikogi (稽古着, keikogi, practice clothing) or jūdōgi (柔道着, judogi, judo clothing)[112] sometimes abbreviated in the west as "gi". It comprises a heavy cotton kimono-like jacket called an uwagi (上衣, jacket), similar to traditional hanten (半纏, workers' jackets) fastened by an obi (帯, obi, belt), coloured to indicate rank, and cotton draw-string zubon (ズボン, trousers).[113] Early examples of keikogi had short sleeves and trouser legs and the modern long-sleeved judogi was adopted in 1906.[114]

Judo’s direction has changed since its inception. Kanō designed judo to be a safe, cooperative method of physical education. Jūdōka spend a great amount of time learning to fall safely. Even in randori, the person performing the throw (the tori) helps the person receiving (the uke) to the ground by holding onto his arm and guiding him to a safe fall. By contrast, in Western wrestling one does not help an opponent to fall, and coaches spend little if any time teaching their wrestlers how to fall safely. As judo competitions became more popular, however, jūdōka began to exhibit the competitive spirit more usually found in Western wrestlers; they began concentrating on judo as a sport rather than as a drill or a way of life. The inclusion of judo in the Olympic Games marked the turning point in this transformation.

This is a list of judo techniques. They are categorized into throwing techniques (nage-waza), grappling techniques (katame-waza), body-striking techniques (atemi-waza), blocks and parries (uke-waza), receiving/breakfall techniques (ukemi), and resuscitation techniques (kappo).

Kano's vision for judo was one of a martial way that could be practiced realistically. Randori (free practice) was a central part of judo pedagogy and shiai (competition) a crucial test of a judoka's understanding of judo.[107] Safety necessitated some basic innovations that shaped judo's development. Atemi waza (striking techniques) were entirely limited to kata (prearranged forms) early in judo's history. Kansetsu waza (joint manipulation techniques) were limited to techniques that focused on the elbow joint. Various throwing techniques that were judged to be too dangerous to practice safely at full force, such as all joint-locking throws from Jujutsu, were also prohibited in shiai. To maximise safety in nage waza (throwing techniques), judoka trained in ukemi (break falls) and practiced on tatami (rice straw mats).[citation needed]
Kansetsu and shime waza

Initially considered as a self-defence system, judo is step by step recognized for its educational value, its benefits for the development of the body and the character.

    Male – Kōdōkan 10th dan
    Male – International Judo Federation 10th dan
    Male – 10th dan, National Governing Body or Continental Union
    Independent Bodies, 10th dan
    Female – 10th dan, National Governing Body

Descendant arts	Kosen judo, Bartitsu, Yoseikan Budō, Brazilian jiu-jitsu, Sambo, ARB, CQC, Krav Maga, Kapap, Kūdō, MMA, modern Arnis, Luta Livre, shoot wrestling, submission grappling, Vale Tudo
Olympic sport	

Judo's philosophy revolves around two primary principles: "Seiryoku-Zenyo" (精力善用, lit. 'good use of energy') and "Jita-Kyoei" (自他共栄, lit. 'mutual welfare and benefit').[4][7][8][9][10] The philosophy and subsequent pedagogy developed for judo became the model for other modern Japanese martial arts that developed from Ko-ryū. Judo has also spawned a number of derivative martial arts around the world, such as Brazilian jiu-jitsu, Krav Maga, sambo, and ARB. Judo also influenced the formation of other combat styles such as close-quarters combat (CQC), mixed martial arts (MMA), shoot wrestling and submission wrestling.
History and philosophy
Early life of its founder
Jigoro Kano, founder of judo

judo, system of unarmed combat, now primarily a sport. The rules of the sport of judo are complex. The objective is to cleanly throw, to pin, or to master the opponent, the latter being done by applying pressure to arm joints or to the neck to cause the opponent to yield.